NEWSLETTER
Inaugural Issue
Pak-Austria Fachhochschule:
Institute of Applied Sciences and Technology (PAF-IAST)
The
Vision
The Institute aspires to be an exemplary national leader in creating effective
skill-oriented education to prepare diverse, industrious, and career-ready
graduates for success in a global and interdependent society.
Vol: 1 Issue No. 1
September 2020
A PROJECT OF THE GOVERNMENT OF KHYBER PAKHTUNKHWA
Prime Minister
Imran Khan
launches
Pak-Austria Institute
to promote science
and technology
education
focus on
Artiﬁcial Intelligence,
Railway Engineering,
Nanotechnology and
Agricultural Science
Honorable Prime Minister of Pakistan Mr. Imran Khan inaugurated the
PAF-IAST on 17th September 2020, along with Governor and Chief
Minister of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa.
“Prime Minister said on the occasion The Institute is one of the
initiatives of the Government of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa which
envisages creating highly credible technical education infrastructure
both at tertiary and hi-tech industry levels.
Imran Khan said that Pakistan has capabilities to advance into a
development phase by changing the way of thinking. It is the need of
time for stepping forward in the ﬁeld of science and technology for
opening a new era of development in Pakistan.
The premier urged for choosing a path to transform Pakistanis into a
great nation and Allah Almighty will deﬁnitely give success to those
honestly pursuing a target.
He thanked China and Austria for assisting the authorities in Pakistan
as the establishment of the institute was an important project of the
Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (KP) government.
NEWSLETTER
Inaugural Issue
Pak-Austria Fachhochschule:
Institute of Applied Sciences and Technology (PAF-IAST)
While addressing the ceremony after inaugurating Pak-Austria
Fachhochschule Institute of Applied Sciences and Technology in Haripur,
the PM said that we need to advance science and technology ﬁeld for the
progress of the country.
We are moving in the right direction with a focus on education, science,
technology and knowledge economy, he stated.
Imran Khan told that the government is going to collaborate with ﬁve
Chinese and three Austrian universities for technological advancement
in Pakistan.
The premier said in the second phase of China-Pakistan Economic
Corridor (CPEC), special economic zones will be established and industry
will be relocated in Pakistan.
Pak-Austria Fachhochschule Institute of Applied Sciences and
Technology will oﬀer special courses in artiﬁcial intelligence, engineering
and food technology.
Inaugural Ceremony
2
0
NEWSLETTER
Inaugural Issue
Pak-Austria Fachhochschule:
Institute of Applied Sciences and Technology (PAF-IAST)
On September 17, a historic event occurred. The prime minster of
Pakistan inaugurated a beautiful campus of Pakistan’s ﬁrst foreign
engineering university, the Pak-Austria Fachhochschule, in Haripur
Hazara, about 40 miles from Islamabad.
The university has a lake and is surrounded by beautiful undulating
hills with wildﬂowers and medicinal plants growing on them. It is the
ﬁrst university in Asia, and possibly in the world in which eight
leading engineering universities in Austria and China have come
together as partners. These include three Austrian Universities of
Applied Science and Engineering (Fachhochschule) and ﬁve Chinese
universities that are leaders in their respective disciplines.
A dream that I had dreamt for the last 15 years has at last come true
and a wonderful beginning has been made towards establishing a
network of such high-quality foreign engineering universities in
Pakistan. Kudos to PM Imran Khan.
Several leading Chinese universities are formally involved to set up
four postgraduate Centers of Excellence, making it the most powerful
educational program in the region. MS and PhD level courses on high
speed railways engineering will be oﬀered by Beijing Jiaotong
University, the top university in China in this ﬁeld. Similarly, Shenzhen
Institute of Advanced Technologies, the leading institute in China in
this fast emerging ﬁeld, and Guangdong University will oﬀer
postgraduate training programs on artiﬁcial intelligence.
Pakistan possesses a huge amount of unexploited mineral wealth,
but we do not have the capability to extract these minerals and
market them internationally. So China’s leading university in this
highly specialized ﬁeld, China University of Mining and Technology,
has agreed to set up a Center of Excellence in this ﬁeld which will train
students at MS and PhD levels in mining, and mineral extraction and
processing technologies. Another Center of Excellence will be
established in advanced agricultural sciences, with focus on hybrid
seed production, biotechnology for increasing quality and yields as
well as food processing and packaging technologies will be
established by Jiangsu University.
The involvement of no less than eight foreign universities in the
Pak-Austria Fachhochschule will add new dimensions to higher
education in Pakistan. The center piece of the university would be the
Technology Park to foster innovation and promote new start-up
companies with close linkages with foreign and Pakistani industries.
Emphasis will be on applied research of industrial importance. The
aim will be to foster strong linkages between industries in Austria and
China with those in Pakistan through the development and
manufacture of innovative products both for the local market and for
export.
The Pak-Austria Fachhochschule will oﬀer Bachelors, Masters and
PhD programs. The curricula will be identical to those followed by the
foreign collaborating universities in line with the industrial strength
of the partner countries. The education processes will be as per
standards of the foreign partners and will meet HEC and PEC
(Pakistan Engineering Council) criteria, provided that the educational
programs are accredited by the partnering foreign universities.
I approached Imran Khan in 2017, before he was elected, and
presented my idea. He welcomed the idea and promised to provide
funds through the provincial government of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa.
The project was approved in January 2018. Lands in a beautiful
location with a natural lake and undulating green hills were identiﬁed
about 40 miles from Islamabad in Haripur, Hazara. The land was
acquired, campus designed, planning completed, agreements
reached with eight partnering universities in Austria and China,
buildings built and the Pak-Austria Fachhochschule inaugurated – all
within a period of about 30 months! All faculty members hired have
PhD degrees, making it the ﬁrst university of Pakistan with 100
percent PhD level faculty. Admissions were opened last week and a
ﬂood of applications are being processed.
All this became possible because of the constant support of the
prime minister as well as the KP government and the day and night
eﬀorts of Project Director Prof Nasser Ali Khan and his excellent
dedicated team. The guidance and assistance provided by Prof
Haroon Ahmed, Prof Sohail Naqvi, Prof Muhammed Mujahid, Prof
Michael Rode (Innsbruck, Austria) and Prof A Min Tjoa (Vienna) played
a critically important role in bringing my dream to a reality.
No university has been ever built so quickly in the history of this
Subcontinent, let alone one in partnership with so many foreign
partners who will oﬀer their degrees to qualifying students. A
network of such foreign universities is now being planned across
Pakistan that will have the highest international standards and that
will play a pivotal role, Inshallah, to transform Pakistan into a strong
Knowledge Economy.
‘A Dream Comes True’
Dr. Atta ur Rahman words for his
Visionary Project
3
0
NEWSLETTER
Inaugural Issue
Pak-Austria Fachhochschule:
Institute of Applied Sciences and Technology (PAF-IAST)
Said that the inauguration of Pakistan-Austria Fachhochschule Institute will reﬂect the vision of
state-of-the-art science and technology. He expressed hopes that the institute will become an
exemplary centre for the education of science and technology.
The special assistant said that the federal government is committed to promoting science and
technology-based education in the country.
Asim Saleem Bajwa
Special Assistant to Prime Minister on Information
04
Chemistry Lab
Physics Lab
Smart Class Rooms
Computer Lab
Heat Transfer Lab
Biomedical Lab
NEWSLETTER
Inaugural Issue
Pak-Austria Fachhochschule:
Institute of Applied Sciences and Technology (PAF-IAST)
Accreditation/Inspection Committee of
Higher Education Commission visit
PAF-IAST
The committee had visited PAF-IAST on 2nd September 2020 for the evaluation and assessment of facilities, the committee members
were:
Prof. Dr. Muhammad Inayatullah Khan, Vice Chancellor, University of Engineering and Technology, Taxila
Maj. Gen.(R) Prof. Dr. Muhammad Aslam, Pro-Vice Chancellor, National University of Medical Sciences, Rawalpindi
Prof. Dr. Azra Yasmin, Dean and Chairperson Department of Biotechnology, Fatima Jinnah Women University, Rawalpindi
Mr. Amir Shahzad, Deputy Director A&A Division, HEC-Islamabad
The Rector of PAF IAST had given brief presentation about the Institute and full round of the various facilities.
Committee had submitted the report to HEC and recommended that PAF-IAST fulﬁlled all requirements for launching the admissions
in ﬁve undergraduate programs, which are as follows:
i.
Bachelor of Engineering in Chemical Engineering
ii.
Bachelor of Engineering in Electrical Engineering
iii.
Bachelor of Science in Computer Science
iv.
Bachelor of Science in Software Engineering
v.
Bachelor of Science in Biomedical Science
The Higher Education Commission has issued the NOC on 14th September 2020.
5
0
NEWSLETTER
Inaugural Issue
Pak-Austria Fachhochschule:
Institute of Applied Sciences and Technology (PAF-IAST)
Accreditation/Inspection Committee of
Pakistan Engineering Council Team
visit PAF-IAST
PEC oﬃcials had visited PAF-IAST for accreditation of Engineering Programs on 28 August 2020. The following committee members
visited the Institute
Engr. Prof. Dr. Abdul Khaliq
Engr. Prof. Dr. Muddasar Habib
Engr. M. Ansar
Engr. Osaf Mehmood Malik
A presentation was given by Rector PAF-IAST, and later team members visited respective departments and interact with faculty
members, and also visited the labs.
Committee had given satisfactory report and NOC was issued to start the admissions in Engineering programs i.e. (Bachelor of
Engineering in Chemical Engineering & Bachelor of Engineering in Electrical Engineering) for Fall 2020 session.
6
0
NEWSLETTER
Inaugural Issue
Pak-Austria Fachhochschule:
Institute of Applied Sciences and Technology (PAF-IAST)
7
0
NEWSLETTER
Inaugural Issue
Pak-Austria Fachhochschule:
Institute of Applied Sciences and Technology (PAF-IAST)
Email Address: info@paf-iast.edu.pk
Phone: +92-955-645112-116
Address: Pak-Austria Fachhochschule:
Institute of Applied Science & Technology,
Khanpur Road, Mang, Haripur.