IN THIS ISSUE
Education is not mere preparation for life; education is life
itself. Prime Minister Imran Khan inaugurated the maiden
PAF-IAST admissions at a ceremony held on 17th September
2020. The admissions for the Fall-2020 semester in 04
departments for 05 BS disciplines were announced in
October 2020.PAF-IAST curriculum, heralding a unique
concept in Pakistan, is designed on the guidelines of the
Austria University of Fachhochschule. The selected
students will have the opportunity to visit Austria and attend
some courses there. PAF-IAST academic programs are duly
recognized by the following bodies in Pakistan:
·
Pakistan Engineering Council (PEC)
·
National Computing Education Accreditation
Council (NCEAC)
·
Higher Education Commission (HEC)
Admissions Fall 2020
Initially, PAF-IAST has decided to
induct students into its four
departments for the following ﬁve BS
disciplines:
·
Electrical Engineering
·
Chemical Engineering
·
Biomedical Sciences
·
Computer Science
·
Software Engineering
Response from the student was
overwhelming. After rigorous
admission procedures, 174 students
were selected against the oﬀered
programs.
Admission Summary Fall 2020
S.
No.
Name of Program
Enrolled
Students
Highest
Merit %
Lowest
Merit
%
1
Bachelor of Engineering in Electrical Engineering
39
91.11
73.30
2
Bachelor of Engineering in Chemical Engineering
31
95.70
70.77
3
Bachelor of Science in Software Engineering
37
92.52
72.78
4
Bachelor of Science in Computer Science
38
92.13
73.84
5
Bachelor of Science in Biomedical Sciences
29
95.56
83.34
Pioneering Departments
Pak-Austria Fachhochschule: Institute of Applied Sciences
and Technology, Mang, Haripur has undertaken major
initiatives towards development and deployment of
technological infrastructure on its campus. The Academic
Computing Services (ACS) at PAF-IAST has oﬀers most
advanced world-class technology to facilitate academic and
research activities at the campus and beyond.
1.
Smart Classrooms
PAF-IAST is the ﬁrst-
ever institute in
Pakistan to deploy
Smart Classroom
solutions both in
classrooms and
lecture theatres.
Currently, eight smart lecture theatres with most advanced
PAF-IAST organized an orientation on 26 October 2020 for
the new students in order to make their entry to PAF-IAST a
memorable episode of their lives.  Through this interactive
event, the students were provided a platform to interact
with the faculty for a better understanding of the institution,
chosen programs, as well as associated facilities on the
campus. Students were also apprised about the prospects
of their chosen ﬁelds. The new entrants enjoyed the
session and exuded hope and excitement for a good future
ahead.
Orientation: First Batch, 2020
Interactive Digital Board, AI-enabled Speaker's tracking
camera, lecture recorder, along with other ancillary equipment
are operational. In addition, there are as many as  twelve  (12)
Smart Classrooms transformed with Interactive Digital Board
and Learning Management System (LMS) through Cloud AP.
The Campus is fully geared to change teaching from teacher-
centric to student-centric classroom model—a radical
departure from the prevailing teaching and learning culture in
Technological Infrastructure: Academic Computing Services
the country. These smart classrooms ensure remote lecture
delivery not only from both Austrian and Chinese universities/
institutes but also facilitate integration of interactive sessions
of PAF-IAST's teaching faculty and researchers with their
counterparts in the foreign universities/ institutes. The facility
enables students to beneﬁt eﬀectively from the highly
interactive classroom environment, with the facility of
attending lectures and scholarly sessions from anywhere
beyond the campus. The students also have access to
recorded lectures to supplement their learning pursuits.
2
Blanket Wi-Fi Coverage
PAF-IAST oﬀers blanket Wi-Fi coverage.  With its 198 indoor
Wi-Fi Access Points and eight outdoor Wi-Fi Access Points, Wi-
Fi coverage is available to all students, teachers, researchers,
allied staﬀ, and even visitors. The institute enjoys singular
distinction as the only campus in Pakistan equipped with the
latest Wi-Fi 6 (5G enabled technology), thereby oﬀering multi-
gigabit connectivity across the campus with centralized
management and portal services.
2 4 / 7  d i g i t a l
connectivity is the
need of the hour to
achieve the goal of
“learning anytime
anywhere”. Thanks to
this giant facility, PAF-
IAST students face no issue in connecting for collaborative
activities with their teachers and mentors. The multi-gigabit
speed of ubiquitous wireless oﬀers excellent speed when
multiple devices are connected simultaneously for fast
uploading/ downloading digital content, seamless video
streaming, virtual desktop connectivity, etc. For this, PAF-IAST
intends to provide each student on the campus from day one a
laptop of latest speciﬁcations.
3.
Ultra-high-speed Core Network
T h e  c a m p u s  c o r e
network is based on a
40Gbps (upgradable to
100Gbps) ﬁber optic
backbone. This makes
PAF-IAST the unique
h i g h e r  e d u c a t i o n
institution in Pakistan to have a backbone network of capacity
for high-performance computing with low energy
consumption.
The ultra-high-speed backbone network is capable of catering
to all digital/ electronic communication needs of PAF-IAST. For
the aggregation of digital traﬃc from ﬁfty-four (54) Access
Switches, there are ﬁve (5) redundant Distribution Switches
which are deployed across the campus. Besides providing
access to the internet and digital resources to Wi-Fi Access
Points, these Access Switches, transport surveillance video
traﬃc to the centralized recorder and storage. The core
network is equipped with f redundant Core Switches of
3.84Tbps throughput and 2800 Mpps forwarding
performance, redundant Application Switches for connecting
Compute Nodes, and redundant ﬁrewalls and routers of high
throughput capacities.
4.
Cloud Data
PAF-IAST Modular
Data Center for its
Cloud services is
equipped with most
advanced products.
This energy-eﬃcient
Cloud Data facility
oﬀers four IT racks and two other racks for in-row cooling and
uninterrupted power supply within the setup. More
importantly, t redundant ﬁrewalls of the data center provide
secured communication and infrastructure through control of
important and critical data. The entire panoply of Campus
Computing Services comprising high-performance computing
facilities and GPU-based Accelerated Computing (GAC)
Cluster is geared to cater for  24/7/365 operations. The Cloud
Data Center is capable of accommodating t more applications
in the future for which the expandability capacity, twice of its
existing capacity, is built in the current setup. The cloud-based
services are available to  students and administration for
maintaining  and managing  student repositories, digital
learning content management for teachers, big data storage
space for AI researchers, and other critical applications related
to campus computing services and R&D.
5. Campus Management and Student Information System
(CM&SIS)
P A F - I A S T  h a s
deployed Campus-
on-Cloud solution for
i t s  r e q u i r e m e n t s
t o w a r d s  C a m p u s
Management System
( C M S )  a n d  f o r
maintaining Students
Information System (SIS). The ﬁrst batch of admissions, that is,
Fall-2020 took place through Call for Admission, whereby
prospective students were enabled to apply online for their
preferred programs.  Merit lists were generated automatically
through the system. The solution comprises six major
modules:  i) Campus Structure & Policies; ii) Course Catalog &
Class Scheduling; iii) Recruitments & Admissions; iv) Student
Information, Registration & Academic History; v) Student
Financial matters & Scholarships; and vi) Portals, Dashboards,
Reports, & Integrations with third-party systems
4. Computer Laboratory
This lab is equipped with modern high-performance
computers and wireless/wired connectivity. It is meant to
conduct Lab courses of computing and circuits and system-
level simulations, training, workshops, and software
competitions.
5. Fluid Mechanics Laboratory
In this exclusive lab, ﬂuids and their ﬂow behaviors are studied
and observed. Pressure variations are calculated through
gauges for compressible ﬂuids as they ﬂow through
convergent-divergent nozzles. Various theoretical
demonstrations of diﬀerent laws of ﬂuid mechanics are
checked through lab equipment.
6. DLD & Embedded Systems Laboratory
This lab covers Digital Logic and Digital Systems Design,
Embedded Systems, and IoTs. The  experiments range  from
basic digital concepts to advanced digital systems. The lab is
equipped with FPGA, Adruino, and Raspberry Pi kits.
An impressive array of teaching labs has been established in
various departments.   Some of them are as follows:
1.
Augusta Ada Computing Lab
Augusta Ada Lab, which focuses on Software Engineering and
Computing activities, provides facilities for courses such as
Software Engineering, Programming Languages, and
Compilation Techniques. With high-speed Internet (Ethernet
and Wi-Fi Both), this custom-built lab houses Smart HiBoard,
with Programming Display Units (PDUs), and Corei7/i5 All-in-
One networked Desktop Computers using Windows as well as
Linux operating systems.
2. Physics Laboratory
Physics Laboratory trains science and engineering students in
classical physics and electromagnetism. Demonstration kits
are used to illustrate physics principles and enable students to
relate theoretical knowledge with practical learning.
3. Electronics & Circuits Laboratory
Equipped with modern instruments, the laboratory provides
hands-on training to engineering students in all courses
dealing with electric and electronic circuits. This state-of-the-
art facility helps students to see beyond the theory and serves
as a foundation for the students to grasp the subjects to be
taught during advanced semesters.
State-of-the-Art Academic Laboratories
10. Organic & Inorganic Chemistry Laboratory/
Environmental Engineering
At this Lab, students become conversant with basic
instrumentation, techniques, and apparatus and can master
latest techniques such as spectroscopy, chromatography,
organic chemical reactions, salt analysis, elemental analysis,
and catalysis. The analytical and physical chemistry lab
initiates students in physical and analytical chemistry
techniques. The application of principles learned in class is
reinforced through various experiments. Students are amply
exposed to analytical and other techniques used in chemistry
and chemical engineering.
11.
Thermodynamics Laboratory
The thermodynamics lab equipment is related to basic laws
and applications of thermodynamics like boiler, refrigeration
unit, Joule-Thomson apparatus, and Boyle`s law apparatus.
Not only does this Lab enables students to have thorough
understanding of these principles but it also serves the basic
requirement of a chemical engineer, i.e., to cope with the wide
variety of problems such as calculation of heat and work
requirement of physical and chemical processes.
7.
Workshop Laboratory
This Lab has been designed to teach students basic
manufacturing processes, mechanical tools and equipment,
electrical home wiring, and installation and measurement
along with imparting hands-on training. Students can work out
the labor involved, as well as time, and cost of the product or
work.
8. Chemical Process Technology/Analytical and Physical
Chemistry
Chemical process technology lab provides hands-on
experience for semi-industrial/industrial equipment. It is
equipped to teach plant and process design, scale-up, etc.
Students can utilize several diﬀerent scientiﬁc subjects in one
assignment, for instance, analytical chemistry,
thermodynamics, heat and mass balances, unit operations,
kinetics, process control, uncertainty calculations, sampling
techniques, safety, and environmental aspects.
9.
Heat Transfer Laboratory
At chemical industries, various operations are assisted with
addition and rejection of heat by using a variety of heat
exchangers and reactors whose performance is highly
aﬀected through heat transfer.  -The heat transfer lab is
designed to familiarize students with various modes of heat
transfer by applying its fundamentals with the help of available
equipment.
Laboratories are abuzz with Student Activity
with Domestic as well as International Educational Institutes
and Industries:
PAF-IAST Signs Various MOUs/MOAs
4.
Pakistan Telecommunication Company Limited (PTCL)
P a k i s t a n
Telecommunication
Company Limited
(PTCL) was awarded
a  t u r n k e y  I C T
contract on 23rd
October 2020 to
deploy state-of-the-
art IT infrastructure
for Pak-Austria Fachhochschule Institute of Applied Sciences
and Technology (PAF-IAST) University. Zarrar Hasham Khan,
Chief Business Services Oﬃcer, PTCL and Dr. Nasir Khan,
Rector, PAF-IAST signed the contract at the university campus
in Haripur. The signing ceremony was attended by Suleman
Awan, General Manager, Digital Services, PTCL, Dr.
Mohammad Mujahid, Advisor, PAF-IAST, Wasim Hashmi,
Advisor PAF-IAST, along with other senior oﬃcials from both
sides. Anwar Amjad, Advisor IT, PAF-IAST explained the
signiﬁcance of this project and briefed about future plans of
the university   with regard to IT & communication facilities.
5. Zalmi Foundation
PAF-IAST is joining
hands with Zalmi
Foundation to further
s t r e n g t h e n
academia-industrial
linkages. An MOU
was signed in this
context on 23rd
November 2020. This MOU is an important initiative to trigger
interplay between the industry and academia.
1.
Memorandum of Agreement (MOA) Between Jiangsu
University (JSU) and PAF-IAST
Memorandum of Agreement (MOA) between Jiangsu
University (JSU) and PAF-IAST was signed on 25th August
2020 for establishing a center of excellence in “Agriculture
Food Technologies”, exploration of collaborative research
projects and exchange of teaching, research staﬀ & students.
2. Memorandum of Agreement (MOA) Between Beijing
Jiaotong University (BJTU) and PAF-IAST
A  b i l a t e r a l
a g r e e m e n t
was signed
b e t w e e n
B e i j i n g
J i a o t o n g
University and
PAF-IAST on
9th October
2 0 2 0  t o
establish the center of excellence in “Railways Engineering”,
exploration of collaborative research projects & Exchange of
teaching, research staﬀ and students.
3. MOU Between National Radio and Telecommunication
Corporation, Haripur and PAF-IAST
A n  M O U  w a s  s i g n e d  w i t h  N a t i o n a l  Ra d i o  a n d
Telecommunication Corporation, Haripur (KPK), Pakistan on
15th October 2020. Both the parties shall work on join
research and consultancy projects. NRTC has also agreed on
placement (internship and jobs) for PAF-IAST students on merit
basis. NRTC shall extend all possible support to faculty
regarding industrial visits and networking.
PAF-IAST EXPANDING IT'S HORIZON:
Visit of Prof. Dr. Muhammad Suleman Tahir, VC
Khawaja Fareed University of Engineering, and
Innovation Technology
P r o f .  D r.  M u h a m m a d
S u l e m a n  Ta h i r,  V i c e
C h a n c e l l o r  K F U E I T,
Rahimyar Khan visited PAF-
IAST on 27th November
2020. The visiting dignitary
praised the highly technical
educational infrastructure of
PAF-IAST. He commended state-of-the-art academic facilities
at Pak-Austria Fachhochschule as well as the plans to make
use of the broad-based technical facility for KFUEIT students.
Visit to Mashmoom Industry Hattar
PAF-IAST Senior Management
and faculty members visited
Mashmoom Industry, Hattar on
2nd December 2020 as a part
of Academia - Industry
Collaboration.
Seminar on COVID-19
To raise awareness on COVID-19.  PAF-IAST
organized a series of seminar with the theme
'How to protect yourself and others from COVID-
19'. The purpose of these seminars was to
sensitize   the students, faculty, and staﬀ about
the need to take precautions against the
pandemic of COVID-19. During these seminars'
COVID-19 SOPs were strictly followed.
Seminar on Character Education and Academic Achievements
Character education is the process of cultivating
common attitudes, beliefs and behaviors that
are important for people to conduct themselves
as responsible citizens besides helping
students with their academic subjects. Well-
groomed character is also helpful for students to
interact properly with their teachers as well as
fellow students and turning their classroom into
a better learning environment. Fully alive to this
need, PAF-IAST organized a series of seminars on Character Education and Academic Achievements. The seminar was
conducted by Mr. Muhammad Ishfaq Khattak for all undergraduate programs,
Webinar on Importance of Good Hygiene for a Healthy Life
The main objective of this seminar was to
promote good personal and environmental
hygiene practices at PAF-IAST and encourage
students and staﬀ members to adopt and
observe those good hygiene practices which
are imperative to t prevent diseases, reduce
disease transmission, and promote good health
in general.  Moreover, good hygiene creates a
nice image of an individual in the society.
Practicing good personal hygiene can minimize
the risk of many mental, social, and health problems. In summary, good personal hygiene habits are directly related to fewer
illnesses, good personality, and better health. Equally important is to be mindful of l about the cleanliness of the surroundings in
which a person lives, Protection of environment is critically important not  only for ourselves but also for the generations to come.
Iqbal Day at IT&CS Department
Iqbal Day was organized by the
students of IT & Computer
Science department.  The event
spotlighted Iqbal's teachings
a n d  c o m m e m o r a t e  h i s
contribution towards eventual
creation of a separate homeland
f o r  t h e  M u s l i m s  o f  t h e
subcontinent. He was the man
who conceived the idea of a
s e p a r a t e  c o u n t r y  w h e r e
Muslims could live peacefully,
prosper, and follow their religion in total freedom. Dean FECID was invited as the chief guest. The event was attended by the
honorable Rector and all the Directors of PAF-IAST.
Visit Us:
Google Map and directions from
Islamabad, Peshawar , and Ha ripur
Link to Google Maps for directions
to PAF-IST Campus at Mang
@
paf.iast