Pak-Austria Fachhochschule
Institute of Applied Sciences and Technology (PAF-IAST)
(A Public Sector Degree Awarding Institute)
Positions vacant on contract basis
A project of the Government of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Pak-Austria Fachhochschule: Institute of
Applied Sciences and Technology (PAF-IAST), a public sector Chartered, degree awarding Institute, is
novel in its concept and holistic in approach. The Institute concept is based on the slogan of “Skilling
Pakistan” to create a high-quality technical education infrastructure. PAF-IAST is looking for potential
applicants who qualify in relevant areas of specialization, to be appointed in the following disciplines.
Positions /Vacant
Qualification & Area of Specialization
Associate Professor, Chemical &
Energy Engineering (01)
PhD degree from a reputed HEC recognized university in prescribed
disciplines/areas of specializations.
Experience: Six years’ post qualification experience
Publication: 10 SCI IF Papers
Candidate will submit 3 x references from academia and industry
Maximum Age: 50 years
Assistant Professor,
Chemical & Energy Engineering
(01)
PhD degree from a reputed HEC recognized university in prescribed
disciplines/areas of specializations
Candidate will submit 3 x references from academia and industry
Maximum Age: 40 years
Deputy Manager ORIC (01)
PhD with 03 years' experience in Teaching /Academic research, University-
industry linkages, collaboration etc in HEC recognized University
/Institution or any Government or Semi Government national organization
in BPS-17 and equivalent in special pay scales or above having proven
record of accomplishment in the relevant field.
OR
1st Division MS/M.Phil with 05 years' experience in Teaching/Academic
research, University- industry linkages, collaboration etc in HEC
recognized University /Institution or any Government or Semi Government
national organization in BPS-17 and equivalent in special pay scales or
above having proven record of accomplishment in the relevant field.
Maximum Age: 40 years
Assistant Manager Student
Financial Aid & Development
(SFAD) (01)
1st Division Masters degree (16 years of education) with 03 years
experience in Teaching, Administration or Academic research or
managing Student affairs in HEC recognized University/Institution or
any Government or Semi Government national organization in BPS-16
and equivalent in special pay scales and above
Maximum Age: 35 years
Medical Officer (01)
MBBS from PMDC recognized and registered institution with one year
house job in any Government or Semi Government national organization
or PMDC registered hospital
Maximum Age: 35 years
Adv# 08/2025
Additional Requirements:
1)
The applicants will deposit online fee of Rs.1,000/- against (National Bank of
Pakistan) Account No. 2330-3164019975 (for nationals) and IBAN account No.
PK76NBPA2330003164019975 (for international applicants)”. The title of both IBAN account is
“Misc. Receipts Account of PAF-IAST.
General Instructions/Conditions
Following terms and conditions will be applicable in addition to eligibility criteria:
1. Selected candidates shall be governed by the Statutes and Regulations of the Institute.
2. The candidates serving in Government, Semi Government and Autonomous Bodies should route
their applications through proper channel.
3. A person who is dismissed from service or convicted through any Court of Law is not eligible to
apply for above mentioned positions.
4. Any applicant who desires to apply for more than one position shall apply separately for each
position.
5. Applicants should apply Online on the prescribed application form, available at https://paf-
iast.edu.pk/careers-pafiast/.  they will attach all relevant documents with the online application form
before 30-08-2025.
6. Please do not forget to attach a copy of fee challan (on online application portal) after submission of
application via online portal.
7. Original bank draft/pay orders must reach the Directorate of Establishment of the Institute via courier
service with proper (Name, CNIC & Post Applied for) mentioned clearly on the envelope.
8. No application shall be accepted if the copy of deposit receipt is not found attached or the same is
not verified from the bank.
9. Only online submitted applications will be considered.
10. Incomplete applications and applications received in (hard copy) after the due date will not be
considered.
11. Only shortlisted candidates will be called for test//interviews.
12. No TA/DA will be paid during the selection process.
13. PAF-IAST reserves the right to increase or decrease the number of positions or reject any or all
applications without assigning any reason.
Director (Establishment)
Pak-Austria Fachhochschule: Institute of Applied Sciences and Technology
Khanpur Road, Mang, Haripur, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa
Tel: 0995-931210-11 website: www.paf-iast.edu.pk
Email: careers@paf-iast.edu.pk