Pak-Austria Fachhochschule
Institute of Applied Sciences and Technology (PAF-IAST)
(A Public Sector Degree Awarding Institute)
Faculty Required
A project of the Government of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Pak-Austria Fachhochschule: Institute of Applied
Sciences and Technology (PAF-IAST), a public sector Chartered, degree awarding Institute, is novel in its
concept and holistic in approach. The Institute concept is based on the slogan of “Skilling Pakistan” to create
a high-quality technical education infrastructure. PAF: IAST is looking for potential applicants, who qualify in
relevant areas of specialization, to be appointed as faculty members in the following disciplines.
School of Paramedical Sciences (on Teaching Track)
Associate Professor (01)
1.
PhD degree in nursing/public health from reputed HEC’s recognized
University (preferable)
1.   06 years post PhD teaching/clinical experience
2. Five/seven research publications in HEC’s recognized journals, out of
which two should be as 1st author.
3. Age limit 50 years
Or
1. MSN/MSPN degree from any reputed HEC’s recognized University
2. 06 years teaching experience as Assistant Professor or clinical experience
3. Sufficient experience of supervision at master level will be preferred.
4. Age limit 50 years
Assistant Professor (1)
1. MSN/MSPN degree from any reputed HEC’s recognized University
2. 04 years teaching/clinical experience
3. Age limit 40 years
Lecturer (1)
1. Master’s degree in nursing or public health (MSN/MSPH)
2. 02 years teaching/clinical experience
3. Age limit 35 years
Additional Requirements:
1. The applicants will deposit an online fee of Rs. 2500/- for “Associate Professor”, Rs. 2000/- for Assistant Professor
and Lecturer against (National Bank of Pakistan) Account No. 2330-3164019975 (for nationals) and IBAN account
No. PK76NBPA2330003164019975 (for international applicants)”. The title of both IBAN accounts is “Misc. Receipts
Account of PAF-IAST.
General Instructions/Conditions
2. Following terms and conditions will be applicable in addition to eligibility criteria:
3. All the above positions will be filled on a Teaching Track basis.
4. Selected candidates shall be governed by the Statutes and Regulations of the Institute.
5. The candidates serving in Government, Semi Government and Autonomous Bodies should route their applications
through proper channel.
6. A person who is dismissed from service or convicted through any Court of Law is not eligible to apply for above
mentioned positions.
7. Any applicant who desires to apply for more than one position shall apply separately for each position.
8. Applicants should apply Online on the prescribed application form, available at https://career.paf-
iast.edu.pk/web/login.  They will attach all relevant documents with the online application form before 20/03/2026.
Adv# 01/2026
9. Please do not forget to attach a copy of fee challan (on online application portal) after submission of application via
online portal.
10. Please submit the application fee via digital banking and attach receipt on online portal. fee submitted via bank draft
will not be considered.
11. No application shall be accepted if the copy of deposit receipt is not found attached or the same is not verified from
the bank.
12. Only online submitted applications will be considered.
13. Incomplete applications (online) and applications received in (hard copy) will not be considered.
14. Only shortlisted candidates will be called for interviews.
15. No TA/DA will be paid during the selection process.
16. PAF-IAST reserves the right to increase or decrease the number of positions or reject any or all applications without
assigning any reason.
Director (Establishment)
Pak-Austria Fachhochschule: Institute of Applied Sciences and Technology
Khanpur Road, Mang, Haripur, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa
Tel: 0995-931210-11 website: www.paf-iast.edu.pk
Email: careers@paf-iast.edu.pk