Pak-Austria Fachhochschule
Institute of Applied Sciences and Technology (PAF-IAST)
(A Public Sector Degree Awarding Institute)
Faculty Required
A project of the Government of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Pak-Austria Fachhochschule: Institute of
Applied Sciences and Technology (PAF-IAST), a public sector Chartered, degree awarding Institute,
is novel in its concept and holistic in approach. The Institute concept is based on the slogan of
“Skilling Pakistan” to create a high-quality technical education infrastructure. PAF: IAST is looking
for potential applicants, who qualify in relevant area of specialization, to be appointed as faculty
members in the following disciplines.
School of Computing Sciences & Technology
Positions /Vacancies
Qualification & Area of Specialization
The candidate should have BS in Computing Sciences (i.e., Computer Science, Software Engineering, Compute
Engineering, Artificial Intelligence, Data Science, Cyber Security) for all the below mentioned
positions/vacancies.
Professor (01)
The candidate should have PhD with specialization in Computer Networks &
Distributed Computing.
Associate Professor (05)
(One position in each specialty)
The candidate should have PhD with specialization in (i) Artificial Intelligence
(ii) Software Engineering, (iii) Cyber/Information Security (iv) Data Analytics
(v) Theoretical Computer Science.
Assistant Professor (05)
(One position in each specialty)
The candidate should have PhD with Artificial Intelligence specialization in (i
Machine Learning, (ii) Natural Language Processing, (iii) Computer Vision
(iv) Robotics (v) Expert Systems.
Assistant Professor (05)
(One position in each specialty)
The candidate should have PhD with specialization in (i) Network Security,
(ii) Cloud/Edge Security, (iii) Digital Forensic, (iv) Cryptography, (v) Block
Chain.
Assistant Professor (06)
(One position in each specialty)
The candidate should have PhD with specialization in (i) Data Analytics, (ii
Databases, (iii) High Performance Computing, (iv) Information Retrieval (v
Human Computer Interaction /DevOps (vi) Desktop/Mobile/Web App
Development.
Assistant Professor
Associate Professor
Professor
Degree
PhD degree from a
reputed, HEC recognized
university in prescribed
disciplines/areas of
specializations
PhD degree from a
reputed, HEC recognized
university in prescribed
disciplines/areas of
specializations
PhD degree from a reputed, HEC
recognized university in prescribed
disciplines/areas of specializations
Experience
-
6 years post PhD
experience in
research/teaching/industry
12 years post PhD experience in
research/teaching/industry
Publications
01 SCI IF papers
10 SCI IF papers
15 SCI IF papers
Research Grants
Candidates who have won
research grants previously
as PI will be given
preference
Candidates who have won
research grants previously
as PI will be given
preference
Candidates who have won research
grants previously as PI will be given
preference
Maximum
Age Limit
40 Years
50 Years
55 Years
References
Candidates will submit 03 x References from Academia and Industry on email address:
careers@paf-iast.edu.pk
Adv# 02/2024
Minimum Eligibility
Additional Requirements:
1)
The applicants will deposit online fee of Rs.3,000/- against (National Bank of
Pakistan) Account No. 2330-3164019975 (for nationals) and IBAN account No.
PK76NBPA2330003164019975 (for international applicants)”. The title of both IBAN account is
“Misc. Receipts Account of PAF-IAST.
General Instructions/Conditions
Following terms and conditions will be applicable in addition to eligibility criteria:
1. All the above positions will be filled on a Tenure Track based system exclusively developed for the
PAF-IAST.
2. Selected candidates shall be governed by the Statutes and Regulations of the Institute.
3. The candidates serving in Government, Semi Government and Autonomous Bodies should route
their applications through proper channel.
4. A person who is dismissed from service or convicted through any Court of Law is not eligible to
apply for above mentioned positions.
5. Any applicant who desires to apply for more than one position shall apply separately for each
position.
6. Applicants should apply Online on the prescribed application form, available at https://paf-
iast.edu.pk/careers-pafiast/.  they will attach all relevant documents with the online application form
before 01-07-2024.
7. Please do not forget to attach a copy of fee challan (on online application portal) after submission of
application via online portal.
8. Original bank draft/pay orders must reach the Directorate of Establishment of the Institute via courier
service with proper (Name, CNIC & Post Applied for) mentioned clearly on the envelope.
9. No application shall be accepted if the copy of deposit receipt is not found attached or the same is
not verified from the bank.
10. Only online submitted applications will be considered.
11. Incomplete applications and applications received in (hard copy) after the due date will not be
considered.
12. Only shortlisted candidates will be called for test//interviews.
13. No TA/DA will be paid during the selection process.
14. PAF-IAST reserves the right to increase or decrease the number of positions or reject any or all
applications without assigning any reason.
Director (Establishment)
Pak-Austria Fachhochschule: Institute of Applied Sciences and Technology
Khanpur Road, Mang, Haripur, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa
Tel: 0995-931210-11 website: www.paf-iast.edu.pk
Email: careers@paf-iast.edu.pk