Pak-Austria Fachhochschule
Institute of Applied Sciences and Technology (PAF-IAST)
(School of Medicine Dentistry and Allied Sciences PAF-IAST)
Walk in Interview
Date: 01/12/2025 to 12/12/2025 Time: 1300hrs to 1500hrs
The Government of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa has approved the establishment of a School of Medicine Dentistry
and Allied Sciences at Pak-Austria Fachhochschule: Institute of Applied Sciences and Technology, Haripur.
SMDAS, PAF-IAST is seeking qualified applicants in relevant areas of specialization for the following positions:
SUBJECT
POSTS
Anatomy
Assistant Professor
Biochemistry
Assistant Professor
Pathology
Assistant Professor Histopathology
Assistant Professor Chemical Pathology
Medicine
Assist Professor and Associate Professor
Surgery
Associate Professor & Assistant Professor
Gynae-Obs
Associate Professor
Ophthalmology
Senior Registrar
ENT
Senior Registrar
Pediatrics
Professor and Assistant Professor
Psychiatry
Professor or Associate Professor
Assistant Professor & Senior Registrar
Dermatology
Assistant Professor and Senior Registrar
Pulmonology
Assistant Professor and Senior Registrar
Nephrology
Assistant Professor and Senior Registrar
Neurology
Senior Registrar
Rheumatology
Senior Registrar
Accident and Emergency
Assistant Professor & Senior Registrar
Anesthesia
Assistant Professor & Senior Registrar
Critical care
Assistant Professor & Senior. Registrar
Radiology
Assistant Professor
Neurosurgery
Senior Registrar
Maxillofacial Surgery
Senior Registrar
Pediatric Surgery
Senior Registrar
Family Medicine
Assistant Professor & Senior Registrar
1. Valid PM&DC registration and PM&DC Eligibility Certificate are mandatory.
2. All the above positions will be filled on a contact basis.
3. A person who is dismissed from service or convicted through any Court of Law is not eligible for
above mentioned positions.
4. Bring original documents at the time of interview.
5. The selected candidates shall get themselves registered with PMDC and submit their NOC
accordingly."
6. Selected candidates shall be governed by the Statutes and Regulations of the Institute.
7. No TA/DA will be paid during the selection process.
8. Age limit for all positions will be determined as per PMDC criteria.
9. SMDAS, PAF-IAST reserves the right to increase or decrease the number of positions or reject any
or all applications without assigning any reason.
Director (Establishment)
Pak-Austria Fachhochschule: Institute of Applied Sciences and Technology
Khanpur Road, Mang, Haripur, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa
Tel: 0995-931210&2701     website: www.paf-iast.edu.pk
Email: hr@paf-iast.edu.pk
Adv# 04-2024