Pak-Austria Fachhochschule
Institute of Applied Sciences and Technology (PAF: IAST)
(A Public Sector Degree Awarding Institute)
Positions Vacant
A project of the Government of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Pak-Austria Fachhochschule: Institute of Applied
Sciences and Technology (PAF-IAST), a public sector Chartered, degree awarding Institute is looking for
potential applicants, who qualify in relevant areas of specialization, to be appointed purely on a
temporary/contract basis.
Staff Required for IT Support
No. of Positions#04
Qualification:
Bachelor (4 years) Degree in IT/Computer Science/Software Engineering/Cyber Security.
Experience:
Candidates with hands-on experience in Networking, Software, Troubleshooting, VoIP and CCTV
Developer for CMS Cell
No. of Positions#02
Qualification:
Bachelor of Science (BS) degree in Computer Science, Software Engineering, Artificial Intelligence, or a
closely related computing program from a HEC-recognized institution.
Technical Skills:
•
Proficient understanding of modern software development principles and practices. Preferably proficient
understanding of the .Net Framework (C#, ASP.NET). Experience or coursework in Entity Framework and LINQ.
•
Strong knowledge of Database Management Systems (DBMS), preferably Microsoft SQL Server. · Experience
with Model-View-Controller (MVC) architectural pattern. ·
•
Familiarity with front-end technologies such as HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and related frameworks (e.g., jQuery,
Bootstrap). ·
•
Basic understanding of version control systems (e.g., Git). ·
•
Knowledge of software development lifecycle principles.
General Instructions/Conditions
1. Following terms and conditions will be applicable in addition to eligibility criteria:
2. Selected candidates shall be governed by the Statutes and Regulations of the Institute.
3. The candidates serving in Government, Semi Government and Autonomous Bodies should route their
applications through proper channel.
4. A person who is dismissed from service or convicted through any Court of Law is not eligible to apply
for above mentioned positions.
5. Any applicant who desires to apply for more than one position shall apply separately for each position.
6. Applicants should apply Online on the prescribed application form, available at https://paf-
iast.edu.pk/careers-pafiast/.  they will attach all relevant documents with the online application form
before 05-08-2025
7. Only online submitted applications will be considered.
8. Incomplete applications and applications received in (hard copy) after the due date will not be considered.
9. Only shortlisted candidates will be called for test/interviews.
10. No TA/DA will be paid during the selection process.
11. PAF-IAST reserves the right to increase or decrease the number of positions or reject any or all
applications without assigning any reason.
Director (Establishment)
Pak-Austria Fachhochschule: Institute of Applied Sciences and Technology
Khanpur Road, Mang, Haripur, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa
Tel: 0995-931210-11 website: www.paf-iast.edu.pk
Email: careers@paf-iast.edu.pk