Khanpur Road Mang, Haripur, Pakistan
Volume: 1.1
ACADEMIC
RULES AND REGULATIONS
For Bachelor Programs
These academic rules and regulations are applicable from
Semester Fall-2020 on Batch-2020 students and onward.
ACADEMIC
RULES AND REGULATIONS
For Bachelor Programs
Current Version:
Approved By:
Dated:
1.1
6th Academic Council Meeting
30th November 2021
Previous Version:
Approved By:
Dated:
1.0
5th Academic Council Meeting
12th April 2021
TABLE OF CONTENTS
1.
Introduction--------------------------------------------------01
2.
Grading and GPA Calculations-----------------------------05
3.
Transfer Policy------------------------------------------------------07
4.
Registration------------------------------------------------09
5.
Academic Assessment------------------------------------14
6.
Rules for Summer Semester-------------------------------19
7.
Awards and the Honors------------------------------------20
8.
Academic Integrity-----------------------------------------22
9.
Academic Advisors----------------------------------------25
10.
Internship-------------------------------------------------------------27
11.
Code of Conduct----------------------------------------------------32
FOREWORD
One of the chief goals of university education is to educate and equip a
student as a whole person for decent employability with the capacity to
contribute to socio-economic development of the country. By deciding to
pursue your university education at PAF-IAST, you have chosen a unique
institution with a promise to deliver a prosperous future ahead.  At PAF-IAST,
you are ushered in a stimulating environment best suited for effective teaching
and learning.
PAF-IAST distinctly  seeks to engage students in activities needed for their
physical, intellectual and moral growth.  We encourage you to work hard, get
actively involved in your classes and be willing to expand your horizons. We
provide you opportunities to complement your learning in the classroom
through student societies, campus activities, community engagement,
recreation, and leadership development. Our faculty and staff are committed
to support the educational and professional development of students in all
possible ways and manner.
The purpose of this handbook is to acquaint  the  students with the general
rules and guidelines regarding their academic maters. The policies and
procedures presented in this handbook provide essential  information to
facilitate smooth  graduation of our students.  The handbook lays down the
standards expected of students as valuable members of PAF-IAST
community. Should there be any query about the information contained in the
handbook, students are welcome to approach their members of faculty for
guidance.
Prof. Dr. Mohammad Mujahid
Rector, PAF-IAST
1. INTRODUCTION
Medium of Instruction
1.1
Except for language courses, courses other than English and Islamic
Studies, the medium of instruction and examinations for all courses is
English.
1.2
Medium of instruction for Islamic Studies is the student's own choice.
Academic Year
1.3
Academic year comprises mainly two regular semesters, namely, Fall
and Spring.
1.4
A regular semester is spread over 18 weeks of teaching including one
week reserved for nal examination.
1.5
The 9-week summer semester including one week for nal
examination, if offered, is Optional.
Credit Hour
1.6
One credit hour means teaching each week a theory course for one
contact/classroom-teaching hour throughout the semester.
1.7
A classroom-teaching hour or one period is of 60 minutes including a
10-minute break.
1.8
The credit hours of a theory/lab course will be followed according to the
approved curriculum.
1.9
One credit hour of lab work is equivalent to 3 contact hours of
laboratory or practical work per week throughout the semester.
Scheduling of Classes
1.10
All classes are held at scheduled hours. The schedule is
communicated to students through notication of timetable by the
concerned Academic Ofce.
1.11
In case of any unavoidable situation a class may be postponed and
rescheduled as follows:
a)  Faculty members/students are not allowed to reschedule any class
at their own discretion.
b) With the approval of the concerned Head of Department
(HoD)/Chairman, Classes can be rescheduled only by the
Academic Section,
c) Before the cancellation of a class, the Academic Section will be
apprised so that students are informed well in time.
d) For pre-planned activities (conferences, workshops etc.) during
regular class hours, the concerned Head of Department/Chairman
is to be informed and approached for prior formal permission.
1.12
If it is not possible to meet the requirement of minimum lectures due to
unavoidable circumstances), or it is not possible to schedule them in
free slots during the working weeks, classes may be rescheduled on
weekends, local or national holidays.
1.13
A class can be scheduled with the approval of the Head of the
Department/Chairman for 1½ period, that is, for a duration of 90
minutes.
Regular Semester Course Load
1.14
Regular semester course load for undergraduate students not on
academic warning/probation, is determined on the basis of the
Institute's scheme of studies (SoS).
01
02
PAF-IAST Bachelor Academic-Rules_V1.1
PAF-IAST Bachelor Academic-Rules_V1.1
1.15
On the advice of academic advisor, the Head of Department may
change the course load keeping in view the availability of courses,
student's academic performance or academic deciency status.
1.16
A student can register only for a courses for which he/she has qualied
in  all the pre-requisite courses as specied in the approved
curriculum.
Attendance Requirements
1.17
Students are expected to maintain 100% attendance not only in
lectures but also labs, tutorials, seminars, and discussions prescribed
by the course instructor. Mandatory attendance is 75%.
1.18
Failure to meet attendance requirements (75%) in a course will render
the student ineligible to appear in the nal examination of the
concerned course. He /she will be awarded an F grade.
Requirements for bachelor's degree
1.19
The minimum and maximum durations of a bachelor's degree are four
years (8 regular semesters) and 6 academic years respectively.
1.20
On a student's re-admission with credit exemptions from a previous
admission, the maximum duration allowed to complete the degree will
be counted from the date of rst admission at the previous institute.
1.21
A minimum of 130 credit hours are xed for each bachelor's degree
program. If approved by the Institute, a program may have more credit
hours. Clearing all courses listed in the Scheme of Studies (SoS) of a
program is mandatory.
1.22
Securing a Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) of 2.00 is
mandatory for graduation.
1.23
Student must complete at least 500 hours of internship with relevant
organizations.
1.24
To graduate, a student must attain good academic and disciplinary
standing and should not be subjected to any kind of investigation.
Clearance upon withdrawal/completion
1.25
Student who withdraws during the year or leaves the Institute upon
completion of their education must apply for clearance from all the
departments/sections. Clearance is mandatory for the students to be
eligible for the issuance of ofcial documents.
1.26
A student forfeits his/her security deposit if he/she does not complete
the clearance process.
03
04
PAF-IAST Bachelor Academic-Rules_V1.1
PAF-IAST Bachelor Academic-Rules_V1.1
2. GRADING AND GPA CALCULATIONS
Grade Point Average
2.1 The Grade Point Average (GPA) provides a continuous scale for grades
earned. Two types of averages are computed for the grades obtained by
a student, the Semester Grade Point Average (SGPA) and the
Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA). SGPA indicates the GPA of
courses completed in a semester, whereas CGPA reects the GPA of all
courses completed by a certain date  by a student.
2.2 PAF-IAST follows Relative Grading system in its scheme of studies.
Interpretation of Grades
2.3  Grades are interpreted as follows:
Table 1: (Grade Letters and Grade Points)
GPA Calculation
2.4 SGPA is calculated as follows:
SGPA = (P1*C1 + P2*C2 + P3*C3 + P4*C4)/C
P1, P2, P3 and P4 are the grade points earned in respective courses,
while C1, C2, C3, C4 are the credit hours of those courses studied in the
semester.   C is the number of total credits attempted in the semester,
that is, C=C1+C2+C3+C4.
2.5 CGPA is calculated as the weighted average for all semesters
cumulatively using grade points of all the courses taken by a student.
2.6 In case of a course repetition, the grade of both the attempts are visible
on the transcript but only the best grade is included in the cumulative
grade point average (CGPA) calculations.
2.7 The following letter-grades have no grade points, but they will appear on
the transcript. However, they have no effect on the CGPA.
a) W grade letter will be awarded for withdrawn courses. It will not be
removed even if the student successfully completes that course
subsequently.
b) Q grade letter will be awarded on the completion of non-credit
courses.
c) I grade letter will be awarded, after approval of absence by the
concerned BOF, if a student fails to appear in a nal exam. (Refer 5.6
for I grade policy).
d) IP grade letter is assigned by the system in FYP-I at the time of FYP-II
enrolment or at the end of the semester (whichever is earlier).
e) Letter T in the transcript grades column, indicates that the respective
course credits have been approved and transferred to PAF-IAST.
05
06
PAF-IAST Bachelor Academic-Rules_V1.1
PAF-IAST Bachelor Academic-Rules_V1.1
3. TRANSFER POLICY
Credit Transfer from another University
3.1
Transfer of a student and his/her earned credits is possible if:
a) The student had studies at Fachhochschule model
institute/university.
)
A seat is available at PAF-IAST in the intended academic program.
b
3.2
The relevance/compatibility/validity of the curriculum/contents
studied at previous institution is determined against the curriculum
and contents of the relevant courses taught at PAF-IAST.
3.3
Exemption of courses studied at another university cannot be
allowed beyond 40% of the total credit hours of the degree program.
3.4
The HoD/Chairman recommends courses for exemption which are
compatible with PAF-IAST courses.
3.5
Recommendations for credit exemption are sent to Dean of the
relevant Faculty for validation. He is the nal authority to grant
course exemption.
3.6
No credit can be given for a course in which the grade is below B,
that is, a GPA of less than 3.00 on a scale of 4.00.
3.7
Only credits of acceptable courses are transferable, and NOT the
CGPA earned at the previous institution.
3.8
Transfer shall not be processed unless a student provides NOC
from the previous institute stating that:
a)  He/she is not under disciplinary punishment.
b)  No Disciplinary action is pending against him/her.
c)  No Dues are outstanding against the student.
3.9       A transfer shall not be considered during a semester.
3.10
When a student is transferred with credit exemptions from another
institute, the maximum duration allowed to complete the degree will
be counted from the date of rst admission at the previous institute.
Credits for Courses Taken at Other Institutions as Visiting
Students
3.11   After prior approval, students may take courses at other institutions as
visiting scholars.
3.12   Credits for these courses are transferable to PAF-IAST subject to
fullment of the criteria of B or above grade.
3.13   Exemption of courses studied at another university cannot be allowed
beyond 40% of the total credit hours of the degree program.
3.14   To claim credit for courses taken at other institutions, students are
required to submit the detailed course outlines to the respective
department(s) for evaluation.
3.15   These credits will count towards the degree requirements after the
approval from Dean.
07
08
PAF-IAST Bachelor Academic-Rules_V1.1
PAF-IAST Bachelor Academic-Rules_V1.1
4. REGISTRATION
4.1
Students in the rst semester must register for all the courses listed in
the Scheme of Studies (SoS). Once they have registered for the
courses, they are not allowed to drop them.
4.2
Following is the procedure for the recommended course registration
procedure in subsequent semesters:
a)  Clear all previous fees and dues before registration.
b) Register courses online.
c) Pay semester fees by due date.
4.3
In a regular semester (Fall and Spring) a regular student without
academic deciency is allowed to take all courses prescribed in the
scheme of studies.
4.4
In addition to semester load, a student can register for a repeat-
course(s) in consultation with student's advisor provided total load in a
semester does not exceed 21 credit hours.
4.5
Tentative registration timelines for students are given in the table
below.
Table 2: (Tentative Registration Timelines)
Registration of courses with Theory and associated Lab:
4.6
Parents/guardian will be contacted for a meeting with the
HoD/Chairman for sharing the unsatisfactory academic performance
of the student. In consultation with their respective advisors, students
with academic deciency (warning or probation), have the option to
Provisional registration
Final registration
Dropping/adding
courses
Fee clearance
Starts t wo weeks
before
commencement of
semester
Till 3rd day of
semester start
First two weeks  of
semester
By the due date
mentioned on the
voucher
register for improvement of a course if they have obtained C or below
grade. The credits of improved course(s) count once towards credit
hours completed successfully.
4.7
A student must register both for the Theory and Lab part of a course.
4.8
A student cannot withdraw from either Theory or Lab part of the
course. He/she must withdraw both from Theory and Lab component.
4.9
A student can register for both parts of a course (i.e., theory, and lab), if
he/she has passed only the theory part of a pre-requisite course  (if it
has any).
4.10
If a student, who has passed both Theory and Lab, wishes to improve
grade in the course, he/she must register for both Theory and Lab.
Registration for Final Year Project (FYP)
4.11
Final Year Project (FYP) is offered in the second last regular semester.
The project spans over two semesters (FYP-I and FYP-II).
4.12
Students must have a CGPA of 2.00 and completed 90 credit hours to
register for FYP-I.
4.13
Registration for FYP-II requires successful completion of FYP-I.
Adding or Dropping a Course
4.14
The request to add or drop a course can be made within the rst two
weeks of a regular semester. For this, recommendation of student
advisor and approval of the Chairman/Head of Department are
essential.
4.15
Students are not allowed to drop any course during the rst
semester.
4.16
Students cannot drop a course in the summer semester either.
09
10
PAF-IAST Bachelor Academic-Rules_V1.1
PAF-IAST Bachelor Academic-Rules_V1.1
Withdrawal from a Course
nd
4.17
Dropping a course after the 2  week and before commencement of
th
the 11  week, is dened as withdrawal from a course. In the case of
withdrawal, the student is automatically awarded W grade by the
system.
4.18
Withdrawal from a course(s) may result in delay in graduation.
However, the maximum duration of his/her degree program shall
remain the same i.e., 6 years.
4.19
First-year students are not allowed to withdraw course(s) in their rst
semester.
4.20
The fee paid for a withdrawn course is not refundable.
4.21
HoD/Chairman has the authority to approve request for withdrawal on
recommendation of the student's advisor.
4.22
The last date to withdraw from a course shall be the last working day of
th
the 10  week of the semester.
4.23
After the course withdrawal deadline, a student cannot discontinue
the course(s). Discontinuation of the course(s) will result in F grade or
a grade   earned according to the percentage of course assessments
attempted. This grade is visible on the transcript and it has effect on
the CGPA.
4.24
Students availing any form of nancial support are not allowed to
withdraw from a course, unless necessitated by unavoidable
circumstances. Request for withdrawal in such a case must be
approved by the respective Dean.
Course Repeat and Replacement Policy
4.25
Students may repeat courses for improvement with grade
replacement if they have obtained C or below grade. The course
grade is replaceable only if the same course is repeated.
4.26
A student is required to apply to the Controller of Exam before the
notication of results if he/she wants to repeat a course for
improvement after the completion of a degree requirement. He/she
can do so within the maximum duration of the degree (i.e., 6 Years).
4.27
The credit of repeat course shall be counted once towards the
successfully completed credit hours.
4.28
A student awarded an F or W grade in a core course, must repeat the
same course to meet the graduation requirement.
4.29
A core course cannot be replaced by any other course.
4.30
A course can be replaced by another course if that course is
substantially similar to the original course. For this, the approval of
Head of Department is essential.  This option is available only if the
original course has been discontinued by the department.
4.31
In the event of a repeated course, the best grade is included in the
cumulative grade point average (CGPA) calculations.
Expulsion from the Institute
4.32
The Institute may expel a student in the following extreme cases if
he/she:
a)  Poses a threat to the lives or safety of him/herself or other members
of the Institute or is involved in any undesirable activity.
b) Has a critical medical/psychological condition or demonstrates
behavior that seriously interferes with his/her education as well as
that of other members of the Institute.
4.33
The expulsion process is initiated, after thorough verication, by the
faculty advisor and/or disciplinary committee.
11
12
PAF-IAST Bachelor Academic-Rules_V1.1
PAF-IAST Bachelor Academic-Rules_V1.1
5. ACADEMIC ASSESSMENT
5.1
The performance of students is assessed during the semester
through midterm exams, assignments, quizzes, case studies or any
other methods considered appropriate by the course instructor and
the Institute. The assessment requirements shall be duly
communicated to the students at the start of a course.
5.2
Following is the weightage assigned to  various assessment
elements:
a)  Theory Course
Table 3: (Weightage for Theory Assessment)
b) The Sessional includes quizzes, assignments, projects,
internships, class participation etc.
c)   Lab Course
Table 4: (Weightage for Lab Assessment)
d)  A minimum of 12 Lab tasks must be evaluated in a semester.
5.3
Using relative grading system, a letter grade will be awarded to each
student based on his/her overall academic performance in a course.
5.4
Except for the nal examination, all the assessment results will be
shared with the students. The students, however, may check the nal
exam paper through a formal paper rechecking process.
Closure of Admission
4.34
Closure of admission results in termination of a student from an
academic program.
4.35
In case of academic withdrawal, the admission of that student would
stand closed.
4.36
A student's admission will be cancelled automatically on completion
of maximum duration allowed to earn a degree.
4.37
Admission can also be closed if so, recommended by a Disciplinary
Committee and approved by the competent authority.
4.38
A new admission is closed if the awaited result does not meet the
eligibility criteria of a particular degree program.
4.39
A student can request for closure of his admission for personal
reasons or in order to pursue studies elsewhere.
Semester Freeze
4.40
Semester freeze means to unregister all registered courses in a
semester after Add & Drop period. However, tuition fee of the
semester is not refunded.
4.41
A semester of a student can be freeze if his/her overall
attendance is below 75% in a semester on medical grounds or
some other reason beyond his/her control.
4.42
The semester freeze would be approved by the Rector of the
Institute.
13
14
Final Exam
Pre-Final
40-50%
50-60%
Max. Two Mid Term Exams
Sessional
20-30%
20-30%
PAF-IAST Bachelor Academic-Rules_V1.1
PAF-IAST Bachelor Academic-Rules_V1.1
Final Exam
Pre-Final
40-50%
50-60%
Max. Two Mid Term Exams
Sessional
20-30%
20-30%
Academic Warning
5.13
To remain in good academic standing, students are required to
maintain a minimum CGPA of 2.00 at the end of each regular semester
as well as during their study duration.
5.14
Academic warning letter will be issued to students with weak
perfomrance in studies. Such students will be at the risk of being placed
on probation if they do not improve their academic performance.
5.15
Warning letters will be issued to students if:
a)  Their Semester GPA in any regular semester falls below 2.00.
b)  CGPA is below 2.00.
c)  They earn F grade(s) in a course(s)
st
nd
5.16
If the CGPA equals or exceeds 2.00 after the 1  or 2  academic
warning, the warning count is reset to zero.
Academic Probation
5.17
A student will be placed on academic probation if:
a)  The semester GPA remains below 2.00 for two consecutive regular
semesters.
b)  The CGPA falls below 2.00 at the end of any regular semester.
5.18
Students may be placed on probation beforehand without receiving an
academic warning letter.
Academic Withdrawal
5.19
Academic performance of a student is closely monitored especially
during his/her warning and/or probation period. Students who fail to
demonstrate a marked improvement in their academic performance
while on probation will be withdrawn from their respective academic
programs in the following situations:
5.5   Any deviation from Rule 5.2 above, if necessitated by the nature of a
course, will be made with the approval of the Chairman/HOD. On
intimation from Dean, Controller of Examination will implement the
change in the rule for that specic course.
5.6
The Controller of Examination will publish the result notication.
5.7
The Controller Examination is authorized to issue all Warning,
Probation, and withdrawal letters.
Award of Incomplete (I) Grade
5.8
“I” grade is awarded if a student fails to appear in the nal exam
because of medical reasons or due to death of the rst degree relative.
In case of any other eventuality beyond the student s' control, he/she
will be awarded an I grade with the approval of the Board of Faculty
(BoF).
5.9
“I” grade will be awarded to a student on his/her request, after due
process on the recommendation of the department.
5.10
The makeup examination for the “I” grade students will be arranged
within rst six weeks after the beginning of the subsequent semester. In
case the student fails to take the makeup examination, he/she will be
awarded an F grade.
5.11
The standing of a student in the pre-nal semester work evaluation
cannot be altered.
5.12
On announcement of the makeup exam result, “I” grade will be
replaced by the attained grade.  At the same time, the semester GPA
and CGPA are recomputed, and the student's academic record is
updated accordingly.
15
16
PAF-IAST Bachelor Academic-Rules_V1.1
PAF-IAST Bachelor Academic-Rules_V1.1
a)  If the CGPA in the rst semester is below 1.00
b)  If the SGPA of a student is below 2.00 for the rst two consecutive
regular semesters, then s/he will stand withdrawn from the
program.
c) If the CGPA is below 2.00 for any three consecutive regular
semesters after the rst semester.
Retotaling of Final Exams
5.20
Application for retotaling a nal exam must be tendered on prescribed
forms along with retotaling fee.
5.21
Students' application should reach the Examination Ofce within
seven days of announcement of the result.
5.22
The retotaling Committee shall comprise:
a) The Controller of Exam - Convener
b) Head of the Department - Member
c) A Subject Specialist from the Department - Member
5.23    The committee shall comply with the following guidelines to deal with
retotaling cases:
a) The committee shall recount marks awarded by the concerned
instructor.
c) The committee is not authorized to discuss with the student the
outcome of the retotaling.
5.24    The committee shall submit its recommendation, on Change of Grade
Form, to the respective Dean for nal approval.
5.25   Examination Ofce will inform the student about the outcome of the
application for retotaling.
5.26     Retotaling fee will be refunded if there is a change in marks.
Result Declaration Process
5.27
Instructor of the respective course will award the grade. The awarded
grades of every course will be presented for discussion at a
department meeting.  Chair of the meeting (i.e., HOD/Chairman) can
suggest change in the result change but he cannot alter the result. The
nal decision will rest with the concerned faculty member.
5.28
The recommendations of the departmental meeting will be presented
for review and approval at the Faculty Meeting. Chair of the meeting
(i.e., Dean) has the authority to approve awarded grades, deciency
cases of I grade, Probation, and withdrawal. After Dean's approval,
results and deciency cases will be sent to the Controller of Exam for
verication and declaration.
17
18
PAF-IAST Bachelor Academic-Rules_V1.1
PAF-IAST Bachelor Academic-Rules_V1.1
b) Unmarked question or part shall be sent to the instructor for marking.
7. AWARDS AND THE HONORS
7.1
Upon graduation, Gold Medal will be awarded to overall rst position
holder of each degree program.
7.2   Following is the eligibility criteria for the awards of medals and
certicates:
a) Student must have passed the prescribed courses (for his/her
batch) in all semesters.
b) Student must not have failed, repeated or withdrawn from any
course (s) a course in any semester.
c) The position is determined by the GPA earned in all semesters. In
the case of a tie, the position will be adjudged on the basis of
highest marks secured.
d) The student must have earned SGPA of 3.00 or higher in all
semesters.
e) A student disqualied by the Disciplinary Committee from any
academic honor, e.g., a medal or scholarship shall not be
considered for any award.
7.3     Best Project Award for the Final-Year Project (FYP) - Student(s) must
have an A grade in the project to qualify for the award of certicate(s).
7.4    All academic awards and honors will be ofcially notied by the
Controller of Examination.
Rector's List of Honors
7.5
Students earning an SGPA of 4.00 shall be included in the prestigious
Rector's List of Honors.
7.6
The Rector's list will be issued and displayed after each semester and
a recognition certicate will be issued accordingly. Student's name will
also appear on the Institute's website.
7.7
Only those students are included in this list who have completed the
semester with regular course load prescribed in the study plan.
6. RULES FOR SUMMER SEMESTER
6.1
The 9-week summer semester will be offered as an optional semester.
6.2
The contact hours per week will be doubled during the Summer
Semester to ensure full coverage of the course in summer (within
half the duration as compared to a regular semester).
6.3
A student cannot register for a new course unless:
(i) an elective course is being offered by a distinguished scholar or
professional who is available only during summer.
(ii) a student needs one or two new elective courses to graduate at
the end of summer.
6.4
Students can register in summer semester for courses which they had
previously taken and were awarded a letter grade, including W.
6.5
A student will be allowed to repeat a maximum of 2 courses, with
associated labs (if any).
6.6
A student can withdraw from a summer course on or before the last
th
day of the 5  week of classes.
6.7
Summer courses cannot be dropped. The fee charged can neither be
refunded nor carried forward to next semester(s).
6.8
Financial assistance, scholarship or fee concession are not available
in summer semester.
6.9
For a summer course to take place, as a bare minimum FIVE (05)
students must enroll for the course.
6.10
For relative grading, grading scheme of the previously taught course
will be applied to the repeat course.
19
20
PAF-IAST Bachelor Academic-Rules_V1.1
PAF-IAST Bachelor Academic-Rules_V1.1
8. ACADEMIC INTEGRITY
Students are expected to adhere to honest practices throughout their stay at
the Institute. Some specic acts of academic dishonesty are described here:
Cheating:
Cheating is described as any act that is intended to gain unfair academic
advantage. Examples of cheating include, but are not limited to the following:
8.1
Any attempt to give or seek assistance in a formal academic exercise,
like an examination.
8.2
Disseminating or receiving answers, data, or other information by any
means other than those expressly permitted by the concerned teacher
in a certain academic exercise.
8.3
Copying answers, data, or other information (or allowing others to do
so) during an examination, quiz, laboratory experiment, or any other
academic exercise, in which the student is not expressly permitted to
work jointly with others.
8.4
Assuming another individual's identity or allowing another person to
do so on one's own behalf for the purpose of fullling any academic
requirement or in any way enhancing the student's grade or academic
standing.
8.5
Using without the teacher's permission, any device, implement, or
other form of study aid during an examination, quiz, laboratory
experiment, or any other academic exercise.
8.6
Deception or providing false information to a teacher concerning a
formal academic exercise, e.g., giving false excuse for missing a
deadline or falsely claiming to have submitted work.
Dean's List of Honors
7.8
Students with an SGPA of 3.50 to 4.00 would be included in the Dean's
List of Honors at the Institute's website in order to recognize the
students' distinguished performance.
7.9
The Dean's list will be issued and displayed after each semester and a
recognition certicate will be issued.
7.10
The list will include only those students who have completed the
semester with regular course load prescribed in the study plan.
21
22
PAF-IAST Bachelor Academic-Rules_V1.1
PAF-IAST Bachelor Academic-Rules_V1.1
Plagiarism:
Deliberately presenting work, words, ideas, theories, etc., derived in whole or
in part from a source external as though they are the student's own efforts.
Examples of plagiarism include, but are not limited to the following:
8.7
Failing to use proper citations as acknowledgment of the true source
of information presented in a paper, assignment, or any other
academic exercise.
8.8
Presenting any work completed in whole or in part by any individual,
group or organization, as though the work is the student's own, in an
academic exercise.
8.9
Buying, selling, bartering, or in any other fashion obtaining or
distributing material to be used fraudulently as part of an academic
exercise.
Other Academic Violations:
Falsifying or fabricating data, records, or any information relevant to the
student's participation in any course or academic exercise or tampering with
such information as collected or distributed by a teacher. Examples of
academic misconduct include, but are not limited to the following:
8.10
Falsifying, or attempting to falsify attendance records, graded
exercises of any kind, or any information or document that is relevant
to smooth operation of the academic system.
8.11
Inventing, fabricating, or falsifying data as part of completion of an
academic exercise.
8.12
Bribery or paid services i.e., giving assignment answers or test
answers for money.
8.13
Sabotaging or acting to prevent others from completing their work.
This includes removing pages from library books or willfully disrupting
the experiments of others.
Penalties for Academic Dishonesty
8.14  The teacher (under intimation to the concerned HoD/Chairman) can
award a "zero" in a specic assessment of academic evaluation, such
as, assignments, quizzes, project deliverables, etc. if evidence of
academic dishonesty or cheating is found.
8.15  Disciplinary Committee can award the following punishment
depending on the gravity of a case:
i)    'F' grade in a course.
ii)   'F' grade in all the courses.
iii)   Fine
iii)   Expulsion from the university.
iv) Disqualication from any academic honor, e.g., a medal or
scholarship.
v)   Combination of any of the above.
8.16
Disciplinary committee comprises:
i)   Dean nominated by the Rector (Convenor)
ii)  Controller of Examination (Secretary)
iii) Three Senior faculty members nominated by the Rector (Members)
23
24
PAF-IAST Bachelor Academic-Rules_V1.1
PAF-IAST Bachelor Academic-Rules_V1.1
9.8       Keep and follow the assigned students' reports of unsatisfactory work
(such as, notice of class probation for poor attendance (75%), failing
grades, incomplete grades from past semester(s)). Special attention
should be paid to students who are placed on academic warning or
probation.
9.9
Approve all designated educational transactions (e.g.,
preregistration/registration schedule, drops/adds, withdrawals,
change of major and advisor, graduation requirements, etc.).
9.10
Try to make informal/out-of-class/ofce contacts to evince personal
interest in the student as an individual.
9.11
Maintain an up-to-date Advising Portfolio, with a summary record of
performance to date (grade reports, transcript, requirements
completed, etc.), dates of meetings, notation of special circumstances
etc.
9.12
Inform and, if necessary, refer students to other institutional resources
when academic, attitudinal, attendance, or other personal problems
require intervention by other professionals. (e.g., Ofce of Controller of
Exam, Provost, etc.)
9.13
Consult regularly with faculty colleagues in order to have an up-to-date
information. For career and graduate school options, advisors should
refer their charges to the Career Development Center when more
information is needed.
9.14
Initiate case of I-grade whenever a situation arises.
9.15
Resolve in coordination and consultation with the Institute's authorities,
any administrative difculty of the students,
9.16
Each Advisor will monitor the progress of their charges' problems
(whether administrative, psychological or academics), keep this log,
and get it signed by HOD/Chairman on fortnightly basis. Each
Department will forward on semester basis a compiled report of issues
highlighted by Advisor to Dean.
9. ACADEMIC ADVISORS
In order to acquaint Bachelor students with the PAF-IAST Academics Rules &
Regulation and support them to overcome their administrative and academic
issues, the concept of “ADVISOR” has been introduced at PAF-IAST. The
Student Advisor (i.e., faculty member from the Institute) will take care of a
group of 5-10 students. Stated below are the duties of the academic advisor:
-
9.1
Help students to dene and develop realistic educational career
plans through schedule planning for each semester. Each student
should have an up-to-date academic schedule plan till graduation.
9.2
Meet Freshman /Students once a week during 1st semester in order
to assist them in the initial adjustment to university academic life and
clarify their queries related to academic and administrative issues.
Special sessions should be scheduled throughout the rst academic
year.
9.3
Meet continuing students at least once fortnightly with a view to
guiding them to plan for the coming semester (or summer) and to
review/revise their long-range academic program schedules and
clarify their queries related to academic and administrative issues.
9.4
Assist students in studying a course consistent with their abilities and
interests.
9.5
Monitor progress toward educational/career goals and meet at least
once each semester to review the progress toward completing the
proposed academic program and to discuss grades and other
performance indicators.
9.6
Discuss and reinforce linkages and relationships between
instructional program and occupation/career.
9.7
Acquaint students with PAF-IAST Academics Rules and Regulations.
Interpret and provide rationale for the Academic Rules and
Regulations, procedures, and requirements.
25
26
PAF-IAST Bachelor Academic-Rules_V1.1
PAF-IAST Bachelor Academic-Rules_V1.1
10. INTERNSHIP
Internship and its importance
An internship is short-term on-job training or professional learning experience
that offers meaningful, practical work related to a student's eld of study or
career interest. Internships are offered by companies and organizations to
provide entry-level exposure to students in a particular eld or industry.
The major objective of the internship is to expose the students to a real-time
work environment and assist them in developing professional skills such as
teamwork, problem-solving, critical thinking, management, and
communication. In this short-term training, students enhance their knowledge
in a particular eld under the mentorship of skilled experts.
The internship helps to develop the following skills:
•
Professional behavior and knowledge of a specic industry/company, job
functions such as marketing, customer service, accounting, design and
production, application of theoretical knowledge into practical work
•
Communication skills: interpersonal, teamwork, leadership, speaking,
presenting, writing.
•
Computer or technology skills with specic hardware and/or software
•
Project-related skills: research, analysis, time management, multitask
coordination, teamwork, project progress, and completion.
•
Employment-enhancing activities: expanding the network of industry
contacts, earning a job experience to reect the performance.
Internship policy for BS Programs
10.1
PAF-IAST approved 18 weeks (500 hours) of the internship/industrial
training in the 2nd meeting of the academic council held on 11-06-
2020. This includes 08 weeks summer semester internship (after the
6th semester) and 10 weeks total summer break internship
(collectively after the 2nd and 4th semesters) which will be of 05 weeks
in each summer break.
Allowed forms of Internship.
10.2
Industrial training: An industrial training will be considered an internship
experience through which students gain real-time work experience in an
industry or R&D organization and gain knowledge through hands-on
o b s e r v a t i o n  a n d  j o b  e x e c u t i o n  e i t h e r  i n  n a t i o n a l  o r
international/multinational companies.
10.3
Project-based internship: A project-based internship is a learning
process in which students bring acquired knowledge and
methodological competencies into practice on some specic issue or
problem in a national international/multinational company. This will be
considered an internship experience if the student has completed the
selected project or assignment which is to be assessed by the academic
advisor (faculty member) and/or expert in the industry. The project could
be based on developing a part of a new or existing product, preparing
some specic strategy, or conducting analyses.
10.4
Project:  The project with an industry or research institute can be
regarded as an internship experience with the condition that students
should demonstrate the application of knowledge and skills during the
course/study program with quantitative conclusions or qualitative
understanding as a result.
10.5
Virtual internship: Virtual work placement involves the use of an
information and communication technology (ICT) supported
environment, where students interact with one another and companies
independent of time and space as well as across traditional
geographical boundaries. Computer-aided product design and
computer simulations are prominent learning tools for virtual internships.
A virtual internship can be considered an internship experience if the
student has completed a specic project or task duly assessed by the
academic advisor.
27
28
PAF-IAST Bachelor Academic-Rules_V1.1
PAF-IAST Bachelor Academic-Rules_V1.1
Internship outcome
10.6
An appropriate internship position should provide value to the
company or institute offering the internship through assistance in
various tasks such as projects, client interaction, and other
organizational functions. In a broader sense, the learning outcome
during the internship placement should give the student an
opportunity to:
a)  Apply theories and skills, learned in coursework, to practical
experience.
b) Develop new knowledge and skills by interacting with
professionals.
Internship Eligibility
10.7
Freshmen, junior, sophomore, and senior students in all majors are
eligible for the mandatory internship.
10.8
Employer or students' academic program may require specic course
work, skillset, and specic CGPA.
Specic issues related to the Internship
10.9
Industrial training and project-based internship are preferred forms of
internship experience.
10.10 Project or virtual internship will be considered an internship
experience only for one summer break.
10.11 PAF-IAST will provide NO remuneration, transportation, and living
expenses for the internship.
10.12 An individual and a small team (≤ 4) are preferred forms of
internships.
10.13 Location for the internship can be home institute, national company,
international company, or institute.
Supervision of the internship
10.14 The procedure is as follows:
a. The student will submit internship placement pro forma in the rst
week while joining the internship program at a certain
company/institution.
b. He/she will meet the supervisor every two weeks and share with
him/her the progress of the internship.
c. He/she will mid-term report stating the level of attainment of
internship goals and objectives.
d. He/she will submit the nal report containing the detailed works of
internship and achievement of the goals and objectives.
10.15 The supervisor will be responsible for:
a. Providing prompt feedback to the students on their queries and
progress report.
b. Conducting an online meeting every two weeks
c. Visiting companies to inspect the process of internship at least
once during the internship.
10.16 The company/organization will be responsible for:
a. Supervising the student by the professional having expertise and
professional background in the eld of experience.
b. Providing necessary resources, equipment, facilities that are
required for the learning objectives.
c. Ensuring that the student is following all safety rules of the
workplace and following organization policies.
d.  Contacting formally or informally the concerned academic advisor
in case of any problem
e. Sending a written evaluation of the student at the end of the
internship.
29
30
PAF-IAST Bachelor Academic-Rules_V1.1
PAF-IAST Bachelor Academic-Rules_V1.1
11. CODE OF CONDUCT
In order to inculcate in its community intellectual diversity, self-motivation,
critical thinking, capacity for leadership, and ethically guided high sense of
professionalism, PAF-IAST expects its community (i.e., students, faculty,
employees) to maintain at the campus a disciplined environment.  The code
of conduct provides a framework for improving discipline by identifying
expectations, specifying the violations/acts of misdemeanour and the nature
of ensuing penalties. The PAF-IAST Code of Conduct is laid down below. The
guidelines in the code will help the students, faculty and employees to
regulate their everyday conduct, i.e., behaviour, attitude, and dress of PAF-
IAST community both on and off campus.
11.1
PAF-IAST is an equal opportunity workplace for all students and
employees. The institute does not discriminate its workforce on the
basis of race, color, religion, national origin, gender. All opportunities
are offered purely on the basis of qualications, merit, and institutional
(business) needs.
11.2
PAF-IAST Community should refrain from taking part  in any political,
anti-state, unlawful  and sectarian activities, cheating, plagiarism,
harassment, cyber bulling, drugs, lying, stealing etc., during the entire
tenure of their association  with the Institute.
11.3
PAF-IAST Community should refrain from conduct that might damage
the reputation of the Institute. They must shun   such conduct as may
disrupt of any academic program /activity of the Institute.
11.4
PAF-IAST Community will show tolerance, understanding, and
respect for the rights of others. In case of any misunderstanding with
peers or Institute management, etc., discussions and exchange of
views within the bounds of decency and decorum would be the
desirable course to follow. Threatening attitude and behaviour to
fellow students, faculty, staff, or PAF-IAST as an institution could cause
dismissal from the Institute.
11.5
Irrespective of gender, PAF-IAST Community will be respectful to all
Evaluation of the internship
10.17 At end of the internship, the student must submit an internship report
to the employer as well as the academic advisor for evaluation of the
attainment of the internship objectives.
10.18 Students will be asked to deliver a presentation to the advisor on the
internship activities and learning outcomes of the internship course.
10.19 The student must submit an internship evaluation form assessed and
duly signed by the employer.
10.20 If the evaluation by the academic advisor and/or employer is
unsatisfactory then the student will need to repeat the internship
course.
10.21 The student may directly request an internship completion certicate
from the employer if he requires it for his future career.
31
32
PAF-IAST Bachelor Academic-Rules_V1.1
PAF-IAST Bachelor Academic-Rules_V1.1
All members are expected to be dressed decently in a manner that is
appropriate for any seat of higher learning. Clothes should be
reective of   high cultural and social values.
11.14
No one is allowed to possess or use rearms, rework, dangerous
devices, chemicals, or explosives on the Institute premises. The
Institute has zero-tolerance policy for those found in possession of
artifacts like dangerous knives or daggers which could be viewed as
weapons.
11.15
Whilst on the Institute's premises, members of PAF-IAST Community
should always carry with them their National Identity Card, and PAF-
IAST Identity Card for their safety and security. Lending an identity
card to someone else is a violation of PAF-IAST Code of Conduct and
is liable to disciplinary action.
11.16
Ragging and bullying are prohibited on the institute's premises. Such
acts may result in strict disciplinary action. Any member subjected to
such behaviour or a witness to it, should report the matter to
Chairman/Head of the department/Section.
11.17
No member of the PAF-IAST community is allowed to post an opinion
or participate in a debate in print, electronic and social media on
behalf of the Institute without the prior approval of the competent
authority. Any member who communicates or posts over media in an
individual capacity, should be respectable and courteous, and must
state clearly that the content of the post is his/her personal opinion.
members of the institute and will refrain from such behaviour as can be
interpreted by others as 'gender harassment'.
11.6
PAF-IAST Community must bear in mind that gender interaction and
collaboration is permissible only within the accepted social and cultural
norms of the society. Beyond this, any undue intimacy or unacceptable
proximity, openly or in isolated areas shall not be tolerated.
11.7
It is the responsibility of every individual to keep the Campus
environment neat and tidy. Littering and leaving or throwing trash
carelessly on the Institute premises are prohibited.  The designated
waste bins should be used   to deposit trash.
11.8
Members of PAF-IAST Community are advised to refrain from causing
any damage to the Institute xtures/furniture including venetian blinds,
by scribbling or carving on desks, writing on walls, and misusing lab
equipment, etc.
11.9
All members of PAF-IAST Community are advised not to smoke on the
Institute premises. Any violation may entail strict disciplinary action.
11.10
Mobile phones must be switched off in classrooms, examination halls,
labs and library to keep intact   the calm of these places.
11.11
Members of PAF-IAST Community are advised to adhere to the code of
conduct on-the-eld and off-the-eld while taking part in sports and
extracurricular activities. They are expected to display exemplary
behaviour, especially while representing the Institute in an activities like
seminars, conferences, exhibitions and competitions.
11.12
Cases of indiscipline shall be referred to the Institute Discipline
Committee. The committee is authorized to deal with all matters of
indiscipline and recommend appropriate corrective action to be taken
for various breaches of code of conduct.
11.13
The Institute dress code includes general unspecied rules of
cleanliness, grooming, good taste and appropriateness.
33
34
PAF-IAST Bachelor Academic-Rules_V1.1
PAF-IAST Bachelor Academic-Rules_V1.1