Pak-Austria Fachhochschule
Institute of Applied Sciences and Technology (PAF-IAST)
(A Public Sector Degree Awarding Institute)
Position Vacant on Contract Basis
PAF-IAST BUSINESS INCUBATION CENTER (BIC)
DEPUTY MANAGER - COMMUNICATION AND MARKETING
Eligibility Criteria:

Master’s degree in marketing, Communications, Business, or relevant field

5 years of experience in communications, marketing, or PR roles

Lead Business Incubation Centre (BIC) branding and institutional positioning

Develop and execute structured digital and social media campaigns

Manage BIC’s online presence and content strategy

Liaise with Industry partners and key stakeholders

Handle queries, reporting, and regulatory communication

Ensure compliance with internal policies, SOPs, and documentation standards

Establish effective internal communication systems including but not limited to BIC Cohorts

Draft and manage official communication (reports, emails, press releases, social media pages and
posts)

Plan and execute events and stakeholder engagement activities

Demonstrated ability to analyze data and metrics to inform decision-making.

Strong skills in writing, design, social media strategies, digital marketing, and stakeholder
engagement

Strong understanding of startup ecosystems, incubation environments, and regulatory/compliance
frameworks

Preference will be given to the candidates having relevant BIC or NIC experience
The following terms and conditions will be applicable in addition to eligibility criteria:
1.
Selected candidate shall be governed by the Statutes and Regulations of the Institute.
2.
A person who is dismissed from service or convicted through any Court of Law is not eligible to
apply for above mentioned positions.
3.
Applicants should apply online on the prescribed application form, available at https://paf-
iast.edu.pk/careers-pafiast/ on or before 12th June 2026. They will attach all relevant documents
with the online application form.
4.
Only online submitted applications will be considered.
5.
Incomplete applications and applications received in (hard copy) after the due date will not be
considered.
6.
Only shortlisted candidates will be called for Test/Interviews.
7.
No TA/DA will be paid during the selection process.
8.
The applicants will deposit online fee of Rs.1000/- against Account No. 2330-3164019975 (for nationals) and
IBAN account No. PK76NBPA2330003164019975 (for international applicants)”. The title of both IBAN
account is “Misc. Receipts Account of PAF-IAST and upload the deposit slip with application.
9.
Age limit for said post is 40 years till the closing date.
10.
This position is on contract/project basis.
Director (Establishment)
Pak-Austria Fachhochschule: Institute of Applied Sciences and Technology
Khanpur Road, Mang, Haripur, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa
Tel: 0995-931210-11 website: www.paf-iast.edu.pk
Email: careers@paf-iast.edu.pk