Pak-Austria Fachhochschule
Institute of Applied Sciences and Technology (PAF-IAST)
(A Public Sector Degree Awarding Institute)
Position vacant on contract basis
A project of the Government of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Pak-Austria Fachhochschule: Institute of Applied
Sciences and Technology (PAF-IAST), a public sector Chartered, degree awarding Institute, is novel in its concept
and holistic in approach. The Institute concept is based on the slogan of “Skilling Pakistan” to create a high-quality
technical education infrastructure. PAF-IAST is looking for potential applicants for IT department.
The following terms and conditions will be applicable in addition to eligibility criteria:
1.       The above position will be filled on a contract-basis.
2.       Selected candidate shall be governed by the Statutes and Regulations of the Institute.
3.       The candidates serving in Government, Semi Government and Autonomous Bodies should route their
applications through proper channel.
4.       A person who is dismissed from service or convicted through any Court of Law is not eligible to apply
for above mentioned positions.
5.      Applicants should apply online on the prescribed application form, available at https://paf-
iast.edu.pk/careers-pafiast/ on or before 20-05-2025. They will attach all relevant documents with the
online application form.
6.       Only online submitted applications will be considered.
7.       Incomplete applications and applications received in (hard copy) will not be considered.
8.       Only shortlisted candidates will be called for interviews.
9.       No TA/DA will be paid during the selection process.
10.      The applicants will deposit online fee of Rs.500/- against National Bank account No. 2330-3164019975
(for nationals) and IBAN account No. PK76NBPA2330003164019975 (for international
applicants)”. The title of both IBAN account is “Misc. Receipts Account of PAF-IAST and upload
the deposit slip with application.
11.
Max age 40 years till the closing date.
Director (Establishment)
Pak-Austria Fachhochschule: Institute of Applied Sciences and Technology
Khanpur Road, Mang, Haripur, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa
Tel: 0995-931210-11 website: www.paf-iast.edu.pk
Email: careers@paf-iast.edu.pk
Position
Qualification & Area of Specialization
Deputy Manager IT
1st Division MS/MPhil in IT/Computer Science with 05 years' relevant experience
in HEC recognized University/ Institution or any Government or Semi Government
national organization in BPS-17 and equivalent in special pay scales or above,
OR
1st Division BS (16 years of education) in IT/Computer Sciences with 07 years
relevant experience in HEC recognized University /Institution or any Government
or Semi Government national organization in BPS-17 and equivalent in special pay
Scales or above
Adv# 03/2025