Pak-Austria Fachhochschule
Institute of Applied Sciences and Technology (PAF-IAST)
(A Public Sector Degree Awarding Institute)
Faculty Required
A project of the Government of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Pak-Austria Fachhochschule: Institute of Applied
Sciences and Technology (PAF-IAST), a public sector Chartered, degree awarding Institute, is novel in its concept
and holistic in approach. The Institute concept is based on the slogan of “Skilling Pakistan” to create a high-quality
technical education infrastructure. PAF-IAST is looking for potential applicants for department of English and
modern languages.
The following terms and conditions will be applicable in addition to eligibility criteria:
1.       The above position will be filled on a Teaching Track based system exclusively developed for the
PAF-IAST.
2.       Selected candidate shall be governed by the Statutes and Regulations of the Institute.
3.       The candidates serving in Government, Semi Government and Autonomous Bodies should route their
applications through proper channel.
4.       A person who is dismissed from service or convicted through any Court of Law is not eligible to apply
for above mentioned positions.
5.      Applicants should apply online on the prescribed application form, available at https://paf-
iast.edu.pk/careers-pafiast/ on or before 05-03-2025. They will attach all relevant documents with the
online application form.
6.       Only online submitted applications will be considered.
7.       Incomplete applications and applications received in (hard copy) after the due date will not be
considered.
8.       Only shortlisted candidates will be called for interviews.
9.       No TA/DA will be paid during the selection process.
Director (Establishment)
Pak-Austria Fachhochschule: Institute of Applied Sciences and Technology
Khanpur Road, Mang, Haripur, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa
Tel: 0995-931210-11 website: www.paf-iast.edu.pk
Email: careers@paf-iast.edu.pk
Department of English and modern languages
Positions /Vacancies
Qualification & Area of Specialization
Associate Professor (01)
PhD degree/equivalent professional qualification along with (06 years) teaching
experience as Assistant Professor.
Adv# 01/2025