Pak-Austria Fachhochschule
Institute of Applied Sciences and Technology (PAF-IAST)
(A Public Sector Degree Awarding Institute)
Faculty Required
A project of the Government of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Pak-Austria Fachhochschule: Institute of Applied Sciences and
Technology (PAF-IAST), a public sector Chartered, degree awarding Institute, is novel in its concept and holistic in approach.
The Institute concept is based on the slogan of “Skilling Pakistan” to create a high-quality technical education infrastructure.
PAF-IAST is looking for potential applicants who qualify in relevant areas of specialization to be appointed as faculty members
in the following disciplines.
School of Computing Sciences
Positions
Qualifications and Area of Specialization
Assistant Professor/Lecturer
PhD/First division MS (18 years of education) from HEC recognized Institution in
Artificial Intelligence, Human-Computer Interaction, Data Sciences, Cloud Computing,
Machine Learning, Software Engineering, Cyber Security, Information Security, Big data
analytics.  BS in Computer Sciences (Software Engineering, Computer Engineering,
Artificial Intelligence, Data Sciences, Cyber Security will prefer).
Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences
Assistant Professor/Lecturer
PhD/First division MS (18 years of education) from HEC recognized Institution in
Pharmacology,
Pharmaceutical
Chemistry,
Pharmacy
Practice,
Pharmaceutics,
Pharmacology, Pharmacognosy
Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences Program (Physiotherapy)
Assistant Professor/Lecturer
PhD/First division MS (18 years of education) from HEC recognized Institution in
Physiotherapy
Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Assistant Professor/Lecturer
PhD/ First division MS (18 years of education) from HEC recognized Institution in
Embedded Systems, Power and Control Systems, Signal Processing, Robotics and
Automation (PEC registered)
Department of Mechanical and manufacturing Engineering
Lecturer
First Division MS (18 years of education) from HEC recognized Institution in Mechanical
Engineering (area of Manufacturing and Design) BS must be in Mechanical engineering
(PEC registered)
School of Design, Art & Architecture Technologies (SDAAT)
Assistant Professor,
(Architecture)
a.  Ph.D. in the relevant field from an HEC recognized University/Institution.
b. Master's Degree (Foreign)/M.Phil. Or equivalent degree awarded after 19-years of
education in the relevant field from an HEC recognized University / Institution along
with 3-years teaching /research experience from an HEC recognized University or a
post-graduate Institution or professional experience in the relevant field in a National
or International Organization.
c. First Professional degree (5 years minimum, First Division) from an HEC recognized
University/ Institution along with 5-years teaching/ research experience in an HEC
recognized University or a post-graduate Institution or Professional experience in the
relevant field in a National or International Organization International organization.
Adv# 02/2025
The following terms and conditions will be applicable in addition to eligibility criteria:
1.      For detail advertisement and eligibility criteria please visit https://paf-iast.edu.pk/careers-pafiast/
2.      The above positions will be filled on contract basis as per Statutes of the Institute.
3.       Selected candidate shall be governed by the Statutes and Regulations of the Institute.
4.       A person who is dismissed from service or convicted through any Court of Law is not eligible to apply
for above mentioned positions.
5.      Applicants should apply online on the prescribed application form, available at https://paf-
iast.edu.pk/careers-pafiast/ on or before 27-04-2025. They will attach all relevant documents with the
online application form.
6.       Only online submitted applications will be considered.
7.       Incomplete applications and applications received in (hard copy) after the due date will not be
considered.
8.       Only shortlisted candidates will be called for interviews.
9.       No TA/DA will be paid during the selection process.
10.    The applicants will deposit online fee of Rs.500/- against Account No. 2330-3164019975 (for nationals) and IBAN
account No. PK76NBPA2330003164019975 (for international applicants)”. The title of both IBAN account is
“Misc. Receipts Account of PAF-IAST and upload the deposit slip with application.
11.
Age limit for Assistant Professor is 40 years till the closing date and 35 for Lecturer till closing date.
Director (Establishment)
Pak-Austria Fachhochschule: Institute of Applied Sciences and Technology
Khanpur Road, Mang, Haripur, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa
Tel: 0995-931210-11 website: www.paf-iast.edu.pk
Email: careers@paf-iast.edu.pk
Lecturer (Architecture)
First Professional degree (5 years minimum or Master / Equivalent Degree (First
Class) in the relevant field from an HEC recognized University / Institution with no
3rd Division in the academic career