Pak-Austria Fachhochschule
Institute of Applied Sciences and Technology (PAF-IAST)
(A Public Sector Degree Awarding Institute)
Faculty Required on Contract Basis
A project of the Government of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Pak-Austria Fachhochschule: Institute of Applied Sciences and
Technology (PAF-IAST), a public sector Chartered, degree awarding Institute, is novel in its concept and holistic in approach.
The Institute concept is based on the slogan of “Skilling Pakistan” to create a high-quality technical education infrastructure.
PAF-IAST is looking for potential applicants who qualify in relevant area of specialization to be appointed as faculty member.
The following terms and conditions will be applicable in addition to eligibility criteria:
1.      For detail advertisement and eligibility criteria please visit https://paf-iast.edu.pk/careers-pafiast/
2.      The above position will be filled on contract basis as per Statutes of the Institute.
3.       Selected candidate shall be governed by the Statutes and Regulations of the Institute.
4.       A person who is dismissed from service or convicted through any Court of Law is not eligible to apply
for above mentioned position.
5.      Applicants should apply online on the prescribed application form, available at https://paf-
iast.edu.pk/careers-pafiast/ on or before 30-11-2025. They are required to attach all relevant documents with the
online application form.
6.       Only online submitted applications will be considered.
7.       Incomplete applications and applications received in (hard copy) after the due date will not be considered.
8.       Only shortlisted candidates will be called for interviews.
9.       No TA/DA will be paid during the selection process.
10.    The applicants will deposit online fee of Rs.1000/- against Account No. 2330-3164019975 (for nationals) and IBAN
account No. PK76NBPA2330003164019975 (for international applicants)”. The title of both IBAN account is
“Misc. Receipts Account of PAF-IAST and upload the deposit slip with application.
11.
Age limit for Assistant Professor is 40 years till the closing date.
Director (Establishment)
Pak-Austria Fachhochschule: Institute of Applied Sciences and Technology
Khanpur Road, Mang, Haripur, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa
Tel: 0995-931210-11 website: www.paf-iast.edu.pk
Email: HR@paf-iast.edu.pk
Materials Science & Engineering
Position
Qualifications and Area of Specialization
Assistant Professor
Requirements:
1. PhD degree from a reputed, HEC recognized university in Materials/Metallurgical
Engineering
2. Candidates with experience of product development and IP registration will be given
Preference
3. BS degree in Materials/Metallurgy with PEC registration is mandatory
4. Candidate will submit 3 x references from academia and industry
Adv# 02/2025