Pak-Austria Fachhochschule
Institute of Applied Sciences and Technology (PAF-IAST)
(A Public Sector Degree Awarding Institute)
Faculty Required
A project of the Government of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Pak-Austria Fachhochschule: Institute of Applied
Sciences and Technology (PAF-IAST), a public sector Chartered, degree awarding Institute, is novel in its
concept and holistic in approach. The Institute concept is based on the slogan of “Skilling Pakistan” to create
a high-quality technical education infrastructure. PAF: IAST is looking for potential applicants, who qualify in
relevant areas of specialization, to be appointed as faculty members in the following disciplines.
Materials Science & Engineering (on Tenure Track)
Positions /Vacant
Qualification & Area of Specialization
Associate Professor (01)
1. PhD degree from a reputed, HEC recognized university in Materials
Engineering
2.    6 x years post PhD experience in research/teaching/industry
3.    10 SCI IF papers
4.    Candidates having MS in Materials and have won research grants previously
as PI will be given Preference
5.    BS degree in Materials/Metallurgy is mandatory
6.    50 Years age limit
7.    Candidate will submit 3 x references from academia and industry
Pharmaceutical Sciences (on Tenure Track)
Positions /Vacant
Qualification & Area of Specialization
Professor (01)
1.  PhD degree from a reputed, HEC recognized university in Pharmacy
Practice
2.    12 years post PhD experience in research/teaching/industry and
3.    15 SCI IF papers
4.     Candidates having MS in Pharmacy Practice and have won research grants
as PI will be given preference.
5.     BS degree in Pharmacy/Registration with Pharmacy Council is mandatory
6.     55 Years age limit
7.     Candidate will submit 3 x references from academia and industry
School of Paramedical Sciences (on Teaching Track)
Associate Professor (01)
1.
PhD degree in nursing/public health from reputed HEC’s recognized
University (preferable)
Biological & Health Sciences
Positions /Vacant
Qualification & Area of Specialization (on Tenure Track)
Professor (01)
1.  PhD degree from a reputed, HEC recognized university in biochemistry and
biotechnology
2.  12 years post PhD experience in research/teaching/industry
3.    15 SCI IF papers
4.     Candidates who have won research grants previously as PI will be given
preference
5.     55 Years age limit
6.     Candidate will submit 3 x references from academia and industry
Adv# 03/2024
2.   06 years post PhD teaching/clinical experience
3. Five/seven research publications in HEC’s recognized journals, out of
which two should be as 1st author.
4. Age limit 50 years
Or
1. MSN/MSPN degree from any reputed HEC’s recognized University
2. 06 years teaching experience as Assistant Professor or clinical experience
3. Sufficient experience of supervision at master level will be preferred.
4. Age limit 50 years
Assistant Professor (1)
1. MSN/MSPN degree from any reputed HEC’s recognized University
2. 04 years teaching/clinical experience
3. Age limit 40 years
Lecturer (1)
1. Master’s degree in nursing or public health (MSN/MSPH)
2. 02 years teaching/clinical experience
3. Age limit 35 years
Additional Requirements:
The applicants will deposit an online fee of Rs.4,000/- for “Professor”, Rs. 3000/- for “Associate Professor”,
Rs. 2000/- for Assistant Professor and Lecturer against (National Bank of Pakistan) Account No. 2330-3164019975
(for nationals) and IBAN account No. PK76NBPA2330003164019975 (for international applicants)”. The title of both
IBAN accounts is “Misc. Receipts Account of PAF-IAST.
General Instructions/Conditions
Following terms and conditions will be applicable in addition to eligibility criteria:
1. Selected candidates shall be governed by the Statutes and Regulations of the Institute.
2. The candidates serving in Government, Semi Government and Autonomous Bodies should route their applications
through proper channel.
3. A person who is dismissed from service or convicted through any Court of Law is not eligible to apply for above
mentioned positions.
4. Any applicant who desires to apply for more than one position shall apply separately for each position.
5. Applicants should apply online on the prescribed application form, available at https://career.paf-
iast.edu.pk/web/login.  They will attach all relevant documents with the online application form before 24
January 2025.
6. Please do not forget to attach a copy of fee challan (on online application portal) after submission of application
via online portal.
7. Please submit the application fee via digital banking and attach receipt on online portal. fee submitted via bank
draft will not be considered.
8. No application shall be accepted if the copy of deposit receipt is not found attached or the same is not verified
from the bank.
9. Only online submitted applications will be considered.
10. Incomplete applications (online) and applications received in (hard copy) will not be considered.
11. Only shortlisted candidates will be called for demonstration/Interviews.
12. No TA/DA will be paid during the selection process.
13. MDC, PAF-IAST reserves the right to increase or decrease the number of positions or reject any or all applications
without assigning any reason.
Director (Establishment)
Pak-Austria Fachhochschule: Institute of Applied Sciences and Technology
Khanpur Road, Mang, Haripur, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa
Tel: 0995-931210-11 website: www.paf-iast.edu.pk
Email: careers@paf-iast.edu.pk