Khanpur Road Mang, Haripur, Pakistan
Volume: 1.0
ACADEMIC
RULES AND REGULATIONS
For Graduate Programs
ACADEMIC
RULES AND REGULATIONS
For Graduate Programs
Version:
Approved By:
Dated:
1.0
5th Academic Council Meeting
12th April 2021
These academic rules and regulations are applicable from
Semester Fall-2020 on Batch-2020 students and onward.
FOREWORD
One of the chief goals of university education is to educate and equip a
student as a whole person for decent employability with the capacity to
contribute to socio-economic development of the country. By deciding to
pursue your university education at PAF-IAST, you have chosen a unique
institution with a promise to deliver a prosperous future ahead.  At PAF-IAST,
you are ushered in a stimulating environment best suited for effective teaching
and learning.
PAF-IAST distinctly  seeks to engage students in activities needed for their
physical, intellectual and moral growth.  We encourage you to work hard, get
actively involved in your classes and be willing to expand your horizons. We
provide you opportunities to complement your learning in the classroom
through student societies, campus activities, community engagement,
recreation, and leadership development. Our faculty and staff are committed
to support the educational and professional development of students in all
possible ways and manner.
The purpose of this handbook is to acquaint  the  students with the general
rules and guidelines regarding their academic maters. The policies and
procedures presented in this handbook provide essential  information to
facilitate smooth  graduation of our students.  The handbook lays down the
standards expected of students as valuable members of PAF-IAST
community. Should there be any query about the information contained in the
handbook, students are welcome to approach their members of faculty for
guidance.
Prof. Dr. Mohammad Mujahid
Rector, PAF-IAST
TABLE OF CONTENTS
1.
Semester System-------------------------------------------01
2.
Grading and GPA Calculations-----------------------------04
3.
Transfer Policy-------------------------------------------------------06
4.
Registration-------------------------------------------------08
5.
Academic Assessment-------------------------------------12
6.
Rules for Summer Semester-------------------------------15
7.
Awards and the Honors------------------------------------16
8.
Academic Integrity------------------------------------------17
9.
Code of Conduct-----------------------------------------------------20
1. SEMESTER SYSTEM
Medium of Instruction
1.1
The medium of instruction and examinations for all courses is English.
Academic Year
1.2
Academic year comprises mainly two regular semesters, namely, fall
and spring.
1.3
A regular semester is spread over 18 weeks of teaching
including one week reserved for the nal examination.
1.4
The 9-week summer semester including one week for the
nal examination, if offered, is optional.
Credit Hour
1.5
One credit hour means teaching every week throughout the semester
a theory course for one contact/classroom-teaching hour.
1.6
Classroom-teaching hour or one period is of 60 minutes including a
break-time of 10 minutes break-time.
1.7
The credit hours of a theory/lab course will be followed according to
the approved curriculum.
1.8
One credit hour of lab work is equivalent to 3 contact hours per week
of laboratory or practical work  throughout the semester.
Scheduling of Classes
1.9
All classes shall be  held at scheduled hours. The schedule will be
communicated to students beforehand through notication of
timetable by the concerned Academic Ofce.
1.10
In case of some unavoidable situation, a class may be postponed and
rescheduled as follows:
a) Faculty members/students are not allowed to reschedule any
class at their own discretion.
b) Only the Academic Section is authorized to reschedule classes
with the approval of concerned Head of Department
(HOD)/Chairman.
c) Before the cancellation of a class, the Academic Section will be
apprised so that students are informed well in time.
d) For pre-planned activities (conferences, workshops etc.) during
r e g u l a r  c l a s s  h o u r s ,  t h e  c o n c e r n e d  H e a d  o f
Department/Chairman must be informed and formal permission
sought beforehand.
1.11
If it is not possible to meet the requirement of minimum lectures due to
unavoidable circumstances, or it is not feasible to schedule them in
free slots during the working weeks, classes may be rescheduled on
weekends, local or national holidays.
1.12
W i t h  t h e  a p p r o v a l  o f  t h e  c o n c e r n e d  H e a d  o f  t h e
Department/Chairman, a class can be scheduled for 1½ period, that
is, for a duration of 90 minutes.
Regular Semester Course Load
1.13
Regular semester course load for graduate students not on
academic warning/probation, shall be determined on the basis of the
Institute's scheme of studies (SoS).
1.14
On the advice of academic advisor, the Head of Department may
change the course load keeping in view of  availability of  the courses,
students' academic performance or academic deciency.
1.15
A student can register only for courses for which he/she has passed all
the pre-requisite courses as specied in the approved curriculum.
Attendance Requirements
1.16
Students are required to maintain 100% attendance in lectures,
tutorials, seminars, and discussions prescribed by the course
instructor.
01
02
PAF-IAST Graduate Academic-Rules_V1.0
Presented in 5  ACM on April 12, 2021
th
Master's Degree Requirements
1.17
The minimum and maximum durations of a master's degree are is 1½
year (i.e., 3 regular semesters) and 4 years respectively.
1.18
For the award of MS /Equivalent degree, the candidates need to
complete 24 credit hours of course work along with a minimum of 6
credit hours of research work/thesis.
1.19
Subject to approval of the Institute, a program may have more credit
hours. Passing all courses listed in the Scheme of Studies (SoS) of a
program is mandatory.
1.20
The Head of Department/Chairman may allow the student to do
course work of 6 credit hours in lieu of 6 credit hours of research.
1.21
When a student is readmitted with credit exemptions from a previous
admission, the maximum duration allowed to complete the degree will
be counted from the date of rst admission at the previous institute.
1.22
For graduation, a minimum Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA)
of 3.00 /4.00 is mandatory.
1.23
Every student is required to maintain good academic and disciplinary
standing and should not be under any kind of investigation.
Clearance upon withdrawal/completion
1.24
Student who withdraws during the year or leaves the Institute upon
c o m p l e t i o n  m u s t  a p p l y  f o r  c l e a r a n c e  f r o m  a l l  t h e
departments/sections. Clearance is mandatory for the student to be
eligible for the issuance of ofcial documents.
1.25
A student who does not complete the clearance process, is not
entitled to claim refund of the security deposit.
2. GRADING AND GPA CALCULATIONS
Grade Point Average
2.1 The Grade Point Average (GPA) provides a continuous scale for grades
earned. Two types of averages are computed for the grades obtained by
a student, the Semester Grade Point Average (SGPA) and the
Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA). SGPA indicates the GPA of
courses completed in a semester, whereas CGPA shows  the GPA of all
courses completed by a certain time by a student.
2.2 PAF-IAST follows Relative Grading system for computing grades.
Interpretation of Grades
2.3 The table below shows the interpretation of the grades in prevalence.
Table 1: (Grade Letters and Grade Points)
03
04
Presented in 5  ACM on April 12, 2021
th
PAF-IAST Graduate Academic-Rules_V1.0
3. TRANSFER POLICY
Credit Transfer from another University
3.1
Transfer of a student and his/her earned credits are  only
possible provided:
a) The student has studied at Fachhochschule model
institute/university.
b)  A seat is available at PAF-IAST in the intended academic
program.
3.2
The relevance/compatibility/validity of the curriculum/contents
studied at previous institution against the curriculum and contents
of the relevant courses taught at PAF-IAST.
3.3
Exemption of courses studied at another university cannot be
granted beyond   40% of the total credit hours of the degree
program.
3.4
Recommendation of the HOD/Chairman for  courses compatible
with PAF-IAST courses for exemption.
3.5
Recommendations for credit exemption are sent to Dean of the
relevant Faculty for validation. The Dean is the nal authority to
grant course exemption.
3.6
No credit is allowed for a course with a grade below  B, that is, a
GPA of less than 3.00 on a scale of 4.00.
3.7
Only credits of acceptable courses are transferable, less the CGPA
earned at  the previous institution.
3.8
Request for transfer shall not be considered  unless a student
provides NOC from the previous institute stating that:
a)  The candidate  is not under any disciplinary punishment.
b)  No disciplinary action is pending against the student.
c)  No dues are outstanding against the student.
PAF-IAST Graduate Academic-Rules_V1.0
GPA Calculation
2.4 SGPA is calculated as follows:
SGPA = (P1*C1 + P2*C2 + P3*C3 + P4*C4)/C
P1, P2, P3 and P4 are the grade points earned in respective courses,
whereas C1, C2, C3, C4 are the credit hours of those courses studied in
the semester.  C is the number of total credits attempted in the
semester, that is, C= C1+C2+C3+C4.
2.5  CGPA is calculated as the weighted average for all semesters
cumulatively using grade points of all the courses taken by a student.
2.6  In case of repetition of a course, the grades of both the attempts are
visible on the transcript but only the best grade is included in the
cumulative grade point average (CGPA) calculations.
2.7  The following letter-grades have no grade points. They will appear on
the transcript but will have no effect on the CGPA.
a) W grade letter will be awarded for withdrawn courses and will not be
removed even if the student completes successfully that course
subsequently.
b) Q grade letter will be awarded for the completion of non-credit
courses.
c) I grade letter will be awarded, after approval of absence by the
concerned BOF, if a student fails to appear in a nal exam. (Refer 5.6
for I grade policy).
d)  IP grade letter is assigned for a research work registered for but not
completed.
e)  Letter T in the transcript grades column indicates that the respective
course credits have been approved and transferred to PAF-IAST.
05
06
Presented in 5  ACM on April 12, 2021
th
4. REGISTRATION
4.1
Students in the rst semester are encouraged to register for all the
courses as per Scheme of Studies (SoS). They are registered for all
the courses automatically.
4.2
The recommended course registration procedure in subsequent
semesters is stated below:
a) Clear all previous fees and dues before registration.
b) Register online for courses.
c) Pay semester fees by the due date.
4.3
In a regular semester (Fall and Spring) a regular student without
academic deciency is expected to take courses prescribed in the
scheme of studies.
4.4
In addition to semester load, a student can register for a repeat-
course(s) but total load in a semester shall not exceed 12 credit hours.
4.5
Tentative registration timelines for students are given in the table
below.
Table 2: (Tentative Registration Timelines)
4.6
A student has the option to register for improvement of a course. The
credits of improved course(s) count once towards credit hours
completed successfully.
PAF-IAST Graduate Academic-Rules_V1.0
3.9       A transfer case shall not be considered during a semester.
3.10
When a student is transferred from another institute with credit
exemptions, the maximum duration allowed to complete the degree
will be counted from the date of rst admission at the previous
institute.
Credits for Courses Taken as Visiting Students at Other
Institutions
3.11     After prior approval, students may take courses at other institutions as
visiting students.
3.12   Credits for these courses are transferable to PAF-IAST subject to
fullment of  the criteria of B or above grade.
3.13     Exemption of courses studied at another university cannot be allowed
to more than 40% of the total credit hours of the degree program.
3.14     To claim  credit for courses taken at other institutions, the students are
required to submit for evaluation the detailed course outlines to the
respective department(s).
3.15     After the concerned Dean's approval, these credits will count towards
the degree requirements.
07
08
Presented in 5  ACM on April 12, 2021
th
Provisional registration  Final registration
Dropping/adding
courses
Fee clearance
Starts two weeks
before
commencement of
semester
Till the 3rd day of
start of a semester
During the first
two weeks of
semester
By the due date
mentioned on the
voucher
PAF-IAST Graduate Academic-Rules_V1.0
Registration for MS Research Work & Thesis
4.7
Only candidates with CGPA 3.00 and above are eligible for registration of
MS Research Work and MS Thesis.
4.8
A student can be registered for MS Research Work only subject to
his/her prior qualifying/passing of the Research Methodology course.
4.9
Qualifying/passing of the MS Research Work is mandatory to register for
MS Thesis.
Adding or Dropping a Course
4.10
The request should be made within the rst two weeks of a regular
semester. Approval of the Head of Department on the recommendation
of MS coordinator is essential.
4.11
Students cannot drop a course in the summer semester.
Withdrawal from a Course
nd
4.12
Dropping a course after the 2  week and before commencement of the
th
11  week, is dened as withdrawal from a course and W grade is
automatically assigned by the system.
4.13
Withdrawing of a course(s) may result in delay in graduation. However,
the maximum duration of the entrant's degree program shall remain the
same i.e., 4 years.
4.14
Students are not allowed to withdraw course(s) during the rst semester.
4.15
The fee for a withdrawn course is not refundable.
4.16
Request for withdrawal must be approved by the HOD/Chairman on the
recommendation of the MS coordinator.
th
4.17
The last date to withdraw from a course shall be end of the 10  week of
the semester.
4.18
After the course withdrawal deadline, a student does not have the
option to discontinue the course(s). Discontinuation of course(s) will
result in F grade or a grade assigned according to the percentage of
course assessments attempted. This grade is visible on the
transcript but it will affect the CGPA.
4.19
Students availing any kind of nancial support are not allowed to
withdraw from any course, unless necessitated by unavoidable
circumstances. Request for withdrawal in such case must be
approved by the respective Dean.
Course Repeat and Replacement Policy
4.20
Students may repeat courses for improvement with grade
replacement. The course grade is replaced only if the same course is
repeated.
4.21
A student is required to apply to the Controller of Exam before the
notication of results if he/she wants to repeat a course for
improvement after the completion of a degree requirement within the
maximum duration of the degree (i.e., 4 Years).
4.22
The credit of repeat course shall be counted once towards the credit
hours completed successfully.
4.23
A student who receives an F or W grade in a core course must repeat it
as a graduation requirement.
4.24
A core course cannot be replaced by any other course.
4.25
With the approval of Head of Department, a   course can be replaced
by another course that is substantially similar to the original course.
This exception is applicable only in case the original course has been
discontinued by the department.
4.26
If a course is repeated, the best grade is included in the cumulative
grade point average (CGPA)
09
10
Presented in 5  ACM on April 12, 2021
th
Expulsion from the Institute
4.27
The Institute may expel a student in the following extreme cases:
a)  If he/she poses a threat to the lives or safety of himself/herself or
other members of the Institute or is involved in any undesirable
activity.
b) If he/she has a critical medical/psychological condition or
demonstrates behavior that seriously interferes with his/her own
education and that of other members of the Institute.
4.28
The expulsion process is initiated after thorough verication by the
disciplinary committee.
Closure of Admission
4.29
Closure of admission results in termination of a student from an
academic program.
4.30
If the CGPA of a student falls below 2.50 for two consecutive
semesters, then his/her admission is closed.
4.31
A student's admission will be cancelled automatically after completion
of maximum duration allowed to earn a degree.
4.32
Admission will be closed if recommended by a Disciplinary
Committee and approved by the competent authority.
4.33
A new admission is closed if the awaited result does not meet the
eligibility criteria of a particular degree program.
4.34
A student can request for closure of his/her admission to pursue
studies elsewhere or for personal reasons.
5. ACADEMIC ASSESSMENT
5.1
The performance of students is assessed during the semester
through midterm exams, assignments, quizzes, case studies or any
other methods considered appropriate by the course instructor and
the Institute. Such requirements are duly communicated to the
students at the start of a course.
5.2
The weightage assigned to assessment methods in a course is as
follows:
Table 3: (Weightage for Theory Assessment)
5.3
The Pre-nal can include mid-term, quizzes, assignments, projects,
class participation etc.
5.4
A letter grade using relative grading system will be awarded to each
student based on his/her overall academic performance in a course.
5.5
Except for the nal exam, the assessment results will be shared with
the students. However, students may check the nal exam paper
through a formal paper retotaling process.
5.6
Any deviation from Rule 5.2 above if necessitated by the nature of
course will be made with the approval of the Chairman/HOD. The
Controller of Examination will be informed through Dean for its
implementation.
5.7
The Controller of Examination will publish result notication.
5.8
The Controller of Examination will issue warning, probation, and
withdrawal letters.
11
12
Presented in 5  ACM on April 12, 2021
th
PAF-IAST Graduate Academic-Rules_V1.0
Final Exam
Pre-Final
40-50%
50-60%
PAF-IAST Graduate Academic-Rules_V1.0
Award of Incomplete (I) Grade
5.9
“I” grade is awarded if a student fails to appear in the nal exam
because of medical reasons or due to death of the rst degree relative.
In case of any other eventuality beyond a student's control, I grade will
be approved by the Board of Faculty (BoF).
5.10
“I” grade will be awarded to a student on his/her request, after
completion of due process, on the recommendation of the
department.
5.11
The makeup examination for the “I” grade students will be arranged
within rst six weeks after the beginning of the subsequent semester.
In case the student fails to take the makeup examination, he/she will
be awarded an F grade.
5.12
The standing of a student in the pre-nal semester work evaluation
cannot be altered.
5.13
Once the result of the makeup exam is announced the “I” grade will be
replaced by the attained grade. The semester GPA and CGPA are
recomputed, and the student's academic record is updated
accordingly.
Academic Withdrawal
5.14
Academic performance of a student is closely monitored. Students
who fail to demonstrate a marked improvement   in   their   academic
performance. A student will stand withdrawn from his respective
program if his/her  CGPA  is below 2.50 for two consecutive regular
semesters.
Retotaling of Final Exams
5.15
Application for retotaling of marks of a nal exam must be submitted
on prescribed forms together with retotaling fee.
5.16
The application should reach the Examination Ofce within seven
days of the announcement of the result.
5.17
The retotaling Committee shall comprise:
a) The Controller of Exam - Convener
b) Head of the Department - Member
c) A Subject Specialist from the Department - Member
5.18
The committee should observe the following guidelines to process
retotaling cases:
a) Recount the marks awarded by the concerned instructor.
b) Send unmarked question or part to the instructor for marking.
c) The committee should not discuss with the student the outcome
of the retotaling.
5.19
The committee is required to submit its recommendation, on
Change of Grade Form, for the respective Dean's formal approval.
5.20
Examination Ofce will inform the student about the outcome of the
retotaling application.
5.21
Retotaling fee will be refunded if there is a change in marks.
Result Declaration Process
5.22
The grade will be awarded by the instructor of the respective course.
The awarded grades of every individual course will be presented and
discussed in a department meeting. The Chair of the meeting (i.e.,
HOD/Chairman) can suggest the result change but cannot change
the result. The nal decision will be in the hands of the concerned
faculty member.
5.23
The recommendations of the departmental meeting will be presented
and reviewed for approval.  Chair of the meeting (i.e., Dean) has the
authority to approve awarded grades, deciency cases of I grade,
probation, and withdrawal. After the Dean's approval, results and
deciency cases will be forwarded to the Controller of Exam for
verication and declaration.
13
14
Presented in 5  ACM on April 12, 2021
th
PAF-IAST Graduate Academic-Rules_V1.0
6. RULES FOR SUMMER SEMESTER
6.1
Summer semester will be an optional semester of 9 weeks' duration.
6.2
The contact hours per week during the summer semester   will be
doubled to ensure that the course is covered completely in summer
(within half the duration as compared to a regular semester).
6.3
A student cannot register for a new course unless:
(I) it is an elective course being offered by a distinguished scholar or
professional who is only available during summer.
(ii) a student needs one or two new elective courses to graduate at the
end of summer.
6.4
Students can register in summer semester for courses which they
took previously but were awarded a letter grade (including W).
6.5
A student will be allowed to repeat a maximum of 2 courses (with
associated labs, if any).
6.6
A student can withdraw from a summer course on or before the last
day of the 5th week of classes.
6.7
Summer courses cannot be dropped. Moreover, fee can neither be
refunded nor carried forward to next semester(s).
6.8
No Financial assistance, scholarship or fee concession is available for
a summer semester.
6.9
For a summer course to take place, a minimum of FIVE (05) students
must enroll themselves for it.
6.10
Grading scheme of the previously taught course will be adopted in the
repeating course offered in summer for relative grading.
7. AWARDS AND THE HONOR SYSTEM
7.1
Upon graduation, the Gold Medal will be awarded to a   graduate
from each degree program with overall rst position.
7.2
Eligibility criteria for the medals and certicates is stated below:
a) Student must have passed the prescribed course load (for
his/her batch) in all semesters.
b) Student must not have failed, repeated or withdrawn from a
course in all semesters.
c)  Position is determined by the CGPA earned in all semesters. In
the case of a tie, the position will be determined based on the
highest marks.
d) Student must have earned SGPA of 3.00 or higher in all
semesters.
e)  A  student not disqualied by the Disciplinary Committee from
any academic honor, e.g., a medal or scholarship.
7.3
All academic awards and honors will be ofcially notied by the
Controller of Examination.
15
16
Presented in 5  ACM on April 12, 2021
th
PAF-IAST Graduate Academic-Rules_V1.0
8. ACADEMIC INTEGRITY
Students are expected to adhere to honest practices throughout their stay at
the Institute. Some (not all) of the acts of academic dishonesty are described
here:
Cheating:
Describes any act that is intended to gain unfair academic advantage.
Examples of cheating include, but are not limited to, the following:
8.1
Any attempt to give or seek assistance in a formal academic exercise
like an examination.
8.2
Disseminating or receiving answers, data, or other information by any
means other than those expressly permitted by the concerned teacher,
as part of any academic exercise.
8.3
Copying answers, data, or other information (or allowing others to do
so) during an examination, quiz, laboratory experiment, or any other
academic exercise, in which the student is not expressly permitted to
work jointly with others.
8.4
Assuming another individual's identity or allowing another person to do
so on one's own behalf for the purpose of fullling any academic
requirement or in any way enhancing the student's grade or academic
standing.
8.5
Using any device, implement, or other form of study aid during an
examination, quiz, laboratory experiment, or any other academic
exercise, without the teacher's permission.
8.6
Deception or providing false information to a teacher concerning a
formal academic exercise, e.g., giving false excuse for missing a
deadline or falsely claiming to have submitted work.
Plagiarism:
Deliberately presenting work, words, ideas, theories, etc., derived in whole or
in part from a source external to the student as though they are the student's
own efforts.
Examples of plagiarism include, but are not limited to the following:
8.7
Failing to use proper citations as acknowledgment of the true source
of information presented in a paper, assignment, or any other
academic exercise.
8.8
Presenting any work completed in whole or in part by any individual,
group or organization other than the student, as though the work is the
student's own, in any academic exercise.
8.9
Buying, selling, bartering, or in any other fashion obtaining or
distributing material to be used fraudulently as part of any academic
exercise.
8.10
All the plagiarism cases will be dealt as per HEC approved policy.
For complete policy please refer to
(https://www.hec.gov.pk/english/services/faculty/Plagiarism/Pages/defa
ult.aspx).
If needed, a plagiarism standing committee may be constituted by the
competent authority as HEC guidelines.
Other Academic Violations:
Falsifying or fabricating data, records, or any information relevant to the
student's participation in any course or academic exercise or tampering with
such information as collected or distributed by a teacher. Examples of
academic misconduct include, but are not limited to the following:
8.11
Falsifying, or attempting to falsify attendance records, graded
exercises of any kind, or any information or document that is relevant
to smooth operation of the academic system.
17
18
Presented in 5  ACM on April 12, 2021
th
PAF-IAST Graduate Academic-Rules_V1.0
8.12
Inventing, fabricating, or falsifying data as part of completion of any
academic exercise.
8.13
Bribery or paid services i.e., giving assignment answers or test
answers or research data for money.
8.14
Sabotaging or acting to prevent others from completing their work.
This includes removing pages from library books or willfully disrupting
the experiments of others.
Penalties for Academic Dishonesty
8.15
The teacher (under intimation to HOD/Chairman) can award a "zero" in
a specic assessment of academic evaluation, such as, assignments,
quizzes, project deliverables, etc. if evidence of academic dishonesty
or cheating is found.
8.16
Disciplinary Committee can award the following punishment on the
gravity of the case:
I) 'F' grade in a course.
ii) 'F' grade in all the courses.
iii) Fine.
iv) Expulsion from the university.
v) Disqualication for academic honor, e.g., a medal or scholarship.
vi) Combination of any of the above.
8.17
Disciplinary committee comprises the following persons:
i)  Dean nominated by the Rector (Convenor)
ii) Controller of Examination (Secretary)
iii) Three Senior faculty members nominated by the Rector (Members)
9.CODE OF CONDUCT
In order to inculcate in its community intellectual diversity, self-motivation,
critical thinking, capacity for leadership, and ethically guided high sense of
professionalism, PAF-IAST expects its community (i.e., students, faculty,
employees) to maintain at the campus a disciplined environment.  The code
of conduct provides a framework for improving discipline by identifying
expectations, specifying the violations/acts of misdemeanour and the nature
of ensuing penalties. The PAF-IAST Code of Conduct is laid down below. The
guidelines in the code will help the students, faculty and employees to
regulate their everyday conduct, i.e., behaviour, attitude, and dress of PAF-
IAST community both on and off campus.
9.1
PAF-IAST is an equal opportunity workplace for all students and
employees. The institute does not discriminate its workforce on the
basis of race, color, religion, national origin, gender. All opportunities
are offered purely on the basis of qualications, merit, and institutional
(business) needs.
9.2
PAF-IAST Community should refrain from taking part  in any political,
anti-state, unlawful  and sectarian activities, cheating, plagiarism,
harassment, cyber bulling, drugs, lying, stealing etc., during the entire
tenure of their association  with the Institute.
9.3
PAF-IAST Community should refrain from conduct that might damage
the reputation of the Institute. They must shun   such conduct as may
disrupt of any academic program /activity of the Institute.
9.4
PAF-IAST Community will show tolerance, understanding, and
respect for the rights of others. In case of any misunderstanding with
peers or Institute management, etc., discussions and exchange of
views within the bounds of decency and decorum would be the
desirable course to follow. Threatening attitude and behaviour to
fellow students, faculty, staff, or PAF-IAST as an institution could
cause dismissal from the Institute.
9.5
Irrespective of gender, PAF-IAST Community will be respectful to all
members of the institute and will refrain from such behaviour as can
be interpreted by others as 'gender harassment'.
19
20
Presented in 5  ACM on April 12, 2021
th
for any seat of higher learning. Clothes should be reective of   high
cultural and social values.
9.14
No one is allowed to possess or use rearms, rework, dangerous
devices, chemicals, or explosives on the Institute premises. The
Institute has zero-tolerance policy for those found in possession of
artifacts like dangerous knives or daggers which could be viewed as
weapons.
9.15
Whilst on the Institute's premises, members of PAF-IAST Community
should always carry with them their National Identity Card, and PAF-
IAST Identity Card for their safety and security. Lending an identity
card to someone else is a violation of PAF-IAST Code of Conduct and
is liable to disciplinary action.
9.16
Ragging and bullying are prohibited on the institute's premises. Such
acts may result in strict disciplinary action. Any member subjected to
such behaviour or a witness to it, should report the matter to
Chairman/Head of the department/Section.
9.17
No member of the PAF-IAST community is allowed to post an opinion
or participate in a debate in print, electronic and social media on
behalf of the Institute without the prior approval of the competent
authority. Any member who communicates or posts over media in an
individual capacity, should be respectable and courteous, and must
state clearly that the content of the post is his/her personal opinion.
9.6
PAF-IAST Community must bear in mind that gender interaction and
collaboration is permissible only within the accepted social and
cultural norms of the society. Beyond this, any undue intimacy or
unacceptable proximity, openly or in isolated areas shall not be
tolerated.
9.7
It is the responsibility of every individual to keep the Campus
environment neat and tidy. Littering and leaving or throwing trash
carelessly on the Institute premises are prohibited.  The designated
waste bins should be used   to deposit trash.
9.8
Members of PAF-IAST Community are advised to refrain from causing
any damage to the Institute xtures/furniture including venetian
blinds, by scribbling or carving on desks, writing on walls, and
misusing lab equipment, etc.
9.9
All members of PAF-IAST Community are advised not to smoke on the
Institute premises. Any violation may entail strict disciplinary action.
9.10
Mobile phones must be switched off in classrooms, examination halls,
labs and library to keep intact   the calm of these places.
9.11
Members of PAF-IAST Community are advised to adhere to the code
of conduct on-the-eld and off-the-eld while taking part in sports and
extracurricular activities. They are expected to display exemplary
behaviour, especially while representing the Institute in an activities
like seminars, conferences, exhibitions and competitions.
9.12
Cases of indiscipline shall be referred to the Institute Discipline
Committee. The committee is authorized to deal with all matters of
indiscipline and recommend appropriate corrective action to be taken
for various breaches of code of conduct.
9.13
The Institute dress code includes general unspecied rules of
cleanliness, grooming, good taste and appropriateness. All members
are expected to be dressed decently in a manner that is appropriate
21
22
PAF-IAST Graduate Academic-Rules_V1.0
Presented in 5  ACM on April 12, 2021
th