Pak-Austria Fachhochschule
Institute of Applied Sciences and Technology (PAF-
IAST)
(A Public Sector Degree Awarding Institute)
Lab Demonstrator
A project of the Government of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Pak-Austria Fachhochschule: Institute of
Applied Sciences and Technology (PAF-IAST), a public sector Chartered, degree awarding Institute, is
novel in its concept and holistic in approach. The Institute concept is based on the slogan of “Skilling
Pakistan” to create a high-quality technical education infrastructure. PAF-IAST is looking for potential
applicants who qualify in relevant areas of specialization, to be appointed in the following disciplines.
General Instructions/Conditions
Following terms and conditions will be applicable in addition to eligibility criteria:
1. Interested candidates send required documents along with the CV, degrees, transcripts, and a statement of
interest detailing their suitability for the role of Lab. demonstrators to HR@paf-iast.edu.pk.
2. Incomplete applications and applications received in (hard copy) after the due date will not be considered.
3. Only shortlisted candidates will be called for interviews.
4. No TA/DA will be paid during the selection process.
Director (Establishment)
Pak-Austria Fachhochschule: Institute of Applied Sciences and Technology
Khanpur Road, Mang, Haripur, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa
Tel: 0995-931210-11 website: www.paf-iast.edu.pk
Email: careers@paf-iast.edu.pk
Positions
Qualification & Area of Specialization
Lab Demonstrator
The School of Computing at Pak-Austria Fachhochschule: Institute of Applied
Sciences and Technology (PAF-IAST), Haripur is seeking highly motivated candidates
for the positions of Lab Demonstrators for semester.
Eligible applicants must hold a BS degree in any of the following disciplines:
Computer Science, Information Technology, Software Engineering, Cyber Security,
Artificial Intelligence, Data Science, Computer Engineering
Telecommunication
MS enrolled students at PAF-IAST in the above disciplines are strongly encouraged to
apply.
Interested candidates should submit:
1.
Updated CV
2.
Copies of degrees & transcripts
Lab Demonstrator
The department of Electrical and Computer Engineering at Pak-Austria
Fachhochschule: Institute of Applied Sciences and Technology (PAF-IAST), Haripur
is seeking highly motivated candidates to apply for the positions of Lab. demonstrators.
The positions are available for Fall 2025, commencing from August 25, 2025. The
applicants should have bachelor’s in electrical/computer engineering. MS enrolled
students at PAF-IAST are encouraged to apply.
Adv# 09/2025