Pak-Austria Fachhochschule
Institute of Applied Sciences and Technology (PAF: IAST)
(A Public Sector Degree Awarding Institute)
Positions Vacant on Contract Basis
A project of the Government of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Pak-Austria Fachhochschule: Institute of Applied
Sciences and Technology (PAF-IAST), a public sector Chartered, degree awarding Institute, is novel in its
concept and holistic in approach. The Institute concept is based on the slogan of “Skilling Pakistan” to create
a high-quality technical education infrastructure. PAF: IAST is looking for potential applicants who qualify
in relevant areas to be appointed in the following disciplines.
Discipline / Positions
available
Qualification & Area of Specialization
Lab Engineer (02)
Software Engineering
/Computer Engineering
1st
Division
Bachelor’s
in
Software
Engineering/Computer
Engineering with 02 years professional experience of lab.
Lab Engineer (02)
Mechanical Engineering
1st Division Bachelor’s in Mechanical Engineering with 02 years
professional experience of lab.
Registration with Pakistan Engineering Council is mandatory.
Lab Engineer (02)
Electrical Engineering
1st Division Bachelor’s in Electrical Engineering with 02 years
professional experience of lab.
Registration with Pakistan Engineering Council is mandatory.
Additional Requirements:
• The applicants will deposit online fee of Rs.500/- against (National Bank of Pakistan) Account No. 2330-
3164019975 (for nationals) and IBAN account No. PK76NBPA2330003164019975 (for international applicants)”.
The title of both IBAN account is “Misc. Receipts Account of PAF-IAST.
General Instructions/Conditions
1. Following terms and conditions will be applicable in addition to eligibility criteria:
2. All the above positions will be filled on a contract basis. Selected candidates shall be governed by the
Statutes and Regulations of the Institute.
3. The candidates serving in Government, Semi Government and Autonomous Bodies should route their
applications through proper channel.
4. A person who is dismissed from service or convicted through any Court of Law is not eligible to apply for
above mentioned positions.
5. 60% or above in Annual System and 3.0/4.0 CGPA in Semester System shall be counted as 1st Division as
per Institute policy.
6. Any applicant who desires to apply for more than one position shall apply separately for each position.
7. Applicants should apply Online on the prescribed application form, available at https://paf-
iast.edu.pk/careers-pafiast/.  they will attach all relevant documents with the online application form before
31-07-2025
8. Please do not forget to attach a copy of fee challan (on an online application portal) after submission of
application via online portal.
9. No application shall be accepted if the copy of deposit receipt is not found attached or the same is not
verified by the bank.
10. Age limit is 45 years.
11. Only online submitted applications will be considered.
12. Incomplete applications and applications received in (hard copy) after the due date will not be considered.
13. Only shortlisted candidates will be called for test/interviews.
14. No TA/DA will be paid during the selection process.
15. PAF-IAST reserves the right to increase or decrease the number of positions or reject any or all applications
without assigning any reason.
Director (Establishment)
Pak-Austria Fachhochschule: Institute of Applied Sciences and Technology
Khanpur Road, Mang, Haripur, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa
Tel: 0995-931210-11 website: www.paf-iast.edu.pk
Email: HR@paf-iast.edu.pk