Pak-Austria Fachhochschule
Institute of Applied Sciences and Technology (PAF: IAST)
(A Public Sector Degree Awarding Institute)
Positions Vacant
A project of the Government of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Pak-Austria Fachhochschule: Institute of
Applied Sciences and Technology (PAF: IAST), a public sector Chartered, degree awarding Institute, is
novel in its concept and holistic in approach. The Institute concept is based on the slogan of “Skilling
Pakistan” to create a high-quality technical education infrastructure. PAF: IAST is looking for potential
applicants for the following positions on a regular basis.
1. Manager (Planning & Works) (SPS-13) No. of Position- 01
PhD in Economics, Commerce, Business Administration (in Finance), Statistics, Mathematics, Project
management or Structural/civil engineering with 08 years experience of Teaching/ Administration
/Planning/ Construction in HEC recognized University/Institution or any Government or Semi
Government National Organization in BPS17 and equivalent in special pay scales or above. OR
1st Division MS/M.Phil. in Economics, Commerce, Business Administration (in Finance), Statistics,
Mathematics, Project management or 1st Division Master degree along with two year SAS/PIPFA
qualification in Economics, Commerce, Business Administration (in Finance), Statistics, Mathematics,
Project management or 1st Division MSc in Structural/civil engineering with 10 years experience of
Teaching, Administration /Planning / Construction in HEC recognized University /Institution or any
Government or Semi Government National Organization in BPS-17 and equivalent in special pay scales
or above. OR
1st Division Master degree (16 years of education) in Economics, Commerce, Business Administration (in
Finance), Statistics, Mathematics, Project management with 12 years relevant experience of Teaching,
Administration /Planning / Construction in HEC recognized University /Institution or any Government or
Semi Government National Organization in BPS-17 and equivalent in special pay scales or above. OR
BSc in Structural /Civil engineering with 17 years experience of Teaching/ Administration /
Planning/Construction in HEC recognized University /Institution or any Government or Semi Government
National Organization in BPS-17 and equivalent in special pay scales or above.
Maximum Age Limit: 45 years
2. Deputy Director (Admin/ Administrative Officer) (SPS-12) No. of Position- 01
1st Division MS/M.Phil with 05 year experience of Teaching/ Administration in HEC recognized
University/Institution or any Government or Semi Government national organization in BPS-17 and
equivalent in special pay scales or above.
OR
1st Division Master degree (16 years of education) with 07 year experience in Teaching/Administration in
HEC recognized University /Institution or any Government or Semi Government national organization in
BPS-17 and equivalent in special pay scales or above.
Maximum Age Limit: 40 years
3. Deputy Manager (IT) (SPS-12) No. of Position- 01
1st Division MS/MPhil in IT/Computer Science with 05 years' relevant experience in HEC recognized
University/ Institution or any Government or Semi Government national organization in BPS-17 and
equivalent in special pay scales or above,
OR
1st Division BS (16 years of education) in IT/Computer Sciences with 07 years relevant experience in
HEC recognized University /Institution or any Government or Semi Government national organization in
BPS-17 and equivalent in special pay scales or above.
Maximum Age Limit: 40 years
4. Assistant Manager Student Financial Aid &Development (SFAD) (SPS-11) No. of Position- 01
1st Division Masters degree (16 years of education) with 03 years experience in Teaching, Administration
or Academic research or managing Student affairs in HEC recognized University/Institution or any
Government or Semi Government national organization in BPS-16 and equivalent in special pay scales
and above.
Maximum Age Limit: 35 years
Adv# 01-2024
Additional Requirements:
1)
The applicants will deposit online fee of Rs.3,000/- against (National Bank of Pakistan)
Account No. 2330-3164019975 (for nationals) and IBAN account No. PK76NBPA2330003164019975 (for
international applicants)”. The title of both IBAN account is “Misc. Receipts Account of PAF-IAST.
General Instructions/Conditions
Following terms and conditions will be applicable in addition to eligibility criteria:
1. Selected candidates shall be governed by the Statutes and Regulations of the Institute.
2. The candidates serving in Government, Semi Government and Autonomous Bodies should route their
applications through proper channel.
3. A person who is dismissed from service or convicted through any Court of Law is not eligible to apply for
above mentioned positions.
4. Any applicant who desires to apply for more than one position shall apply separately for each position.
5. Applicants should apply Online on the prescribed application form, available at https://paf-iast.edu.pk/careers-
pafiast/.  they will attach all relevant documents with the online application form before 20th May 2024.
6. Please do not forget to attach a copy of fee challan (on online application portal) after submission of application
via online portal.
7. Original bank draft/pay orders must reach the Directorate of Establishment of the Institute via courier
service with proper (Name, CNIC & Post Applied for) mentioned clearly on the envelope.
8. No application shall be accepted if the copy of deposit receipt is not found attached or the same is not
verified from the bank.
9. Only online submitted applications will be considered.
10. Incomplete applications and applications received in (hard copy) after due date will not be considered.
11. Only shortlisted candidates will be called for test//interviews.
12. No TA/DA will be paid during the selection process.
13. PAF-IAST reserves the right to increase or decrease number of positions or reject any or all applications
without assigning any reason.
Director (Establishment)
Pak-Austria Fachhochschule: Institute of Applied Sciences and Technology
Khanpur Road, Mang, Haripur, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa
Tel: 0995-931210-11 website: www.paf-iast.edu.pk
Email: careers@paf-iast.edu.pk