Pak-Austria Fachhochschule
Institute of Applied Sciences and Technology (PAF-IAST)
(A Public Sector Degree Awarding Institute)
Faculty Required
A project of the Government of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Pak-Austria Fachhochschule: Institute of Applied
Sciences and Technology (PAF-IAST), a public sector Chartered, degree awarding Institute, is novel in its
concept and holistic in approach. The Institute concept is based on the slogan of “Skilling Pakistan” to create a
high-quality technical education infrastructure. PAF-IAST is looking for potential applicants, who qualify in
relevant area of specialization, to be appointed as faculty members in the following disciplines.
Additional Requirements:
1)
Applicants shall deposit application fee of Rs. 5,000/- for Professor and Rs. 2,000/- for Assistant
Professor through any Digital Banking App ( i.e any Bank, Easy Paisa and Jazz Cash) into the National
Bank
of
Pakistan
Account
No.
2330-3164019975
(for
national
applicants)
or
IBAN:
PK76NBPA2330003164019975 (for international applicants). The title of both accounts is “Misc.
School of Computing Sciences
Positions /Vacancies
Qualification & Area of Specialization
The candidate should have BS in Computing Sciences (i.e., Computer Science, Software Engineering, Computer
Engineering, Artificial Intelligence, Data Science, Cyber Security) for all the below mentioned positions/vacancies.
Professor (02)
The candidate should have PhD with specialization in Computing Fields.
Assistant Professor (05)
(One position in each specialty)
The candidate should have PhD with Artificial Intelligence specialization in
(i) Machine Learning, (ii) Natural Language Processing, (iii) Computer Vision,
(iv) Robotics (v) Expert Systems.
Assistant Professor (05)
(One position in each specialty)
The candidate should have PhD with specialization in (i) Network Security, (ii)
Cloud/Edge Security, (iii) Digital Forensic, (iv) Cryptography, (v) Block Chain.
Assistant Professor (04)
The candidate should have PhD with specialization in (i) Data Analytics,
(ii) Databases, (iii) High Performance Computing, (iv) Information Retrieval
(v) Human Computer Interaction /DevOps (vi) Desktop/Mobile/Web
App Development.
Assistant Professor
Professor
Degree
PhD degree from a
reputed HEC recognized
university in prescribed
disciplines/areas of
specializations
PhD degree from a reputed HEC
recognized university in prescribed
disciplines/areas of specializations
Experience
-
12 years post PhD experience in
research/teaching/industry
Publications
01 SCI IF papers
15 SCI IF papers
Research Grants
Candidates who have won
research grants previously
as PI will be given
preference
Candidates who have won research grants
previously as PI will be given preference
Maximum Age Limit
40 Years
55 Years
References
Candidates will submit 03 x References from Academia and Industry
on email address: careers@paf-iast.edu.pk
Adv# 02/2026
MINIMUM ELIGIBILITY
Receipts Account of PAF-IAST”.
General Instructions/Conditions
Following terms and conditions will be applicable in addition to eligibility criteria:
1. All the above positions will be filled on a Tenure Track based system exclusively developed for the PAF-IAST.
2. Selected candidates shall be governed by the Statutes and Regulations of the Institute.
3. The candidates serving in Government, Semi Government and Autonomous Bodies should route their
applications through proper channel.
4. A person who is dismissed from service or convicted through any Court of Law is not eligible to apply for above
mentioned positions.
5. Any applicant who desires to apply for more than one position shall apply separately for each position.
6. Applicants should apply Online on the prescribed application form, available at https://paf-iast.edu.pk/careers-
pafiast/.  They will attach all relevant documents with the online application form before 21st June 2026.
7. Fee may be deposited through any Digital Banking App, and a copy of the paid challan/deposit receipt must be
attached on the online application portal before submission.
8. Applications without an attached fee challan/deposit receipt will not be considered.
9. Only applications submitted through the online portal shall be entertained.
10. Only shortlisted candidates will be called for interviews.
11. No TA/DA will be admissible for interviews.
12. PAF-IAST reserves the right to increase/decrease the number of positions or reject any or all applications without
assigning any reason.
Director (Establishment)
Pak-Austria Fachhochschule: Institute of Applied Sciences and Technology
Khanpur Road, Mang, Haripur, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa
Tel: 0995-931210-11 website: www.paf-iast.edu.pk
Email: careers@paf-iast.edu.pk