PAF-IAST GUIDELINES ON STUDENTS SOCIETIES/CLUBS
INTRODUCTION
Life at PAF-IAST is not all about academics and study alone. We know that students need a respite
from their tough study schedules. This is necessary to re-invigorate their energies and for the
overall holistic development of the participants. Working in collaboration relates to strength and
empowerment and here PAF-IAST edges to highlight the students working together. Student
societies play a vital role in grooming the inner skills of an individual and they become able to
compete and present themselves as more confident personalities.
Therefore, to encourage the development of leadership, professional and personal strengths in the
students the office of the Provost wants to start the student's societies/clubs. For the overall
development, one must be good at not only in academics but also in sports, cultural activities,
mannerism and above all ethics of life. We believe that a true education occurs both inside and
outside of the classroom. In Student Societies, we strive to ensure a positive educational and co-
curricular experience for all students by concentrating on the out-of-class experience and support
of our students. We aim to build a cohesive and resilient society, deepening the sense of national
identity and affinity through promoting arts and heritage, youth engagement, sports development,
volunteerism and philanthropy. High academic excellence coupled with moral rectitude,
intellectual integrity, sound aesthetic sense etc, is the essence of student societies.
Aims and Objectives of student’s societies & clubs
• Polish hidden qualities of the students.
• To give them a sense of responsibility and ownership.
• To prepare the students to face the challenges of practical life.
• To promote teamwork among the students.
• Enhance the creative potentials of the youth.
• To inculcate in students the spirit of healthy competition.
• To inculcate leadership qualities in students.
• Induce in individuals the sense of love, sacrifice and service to the entire Creation to make
them good human beings.
• Prepare students for future challenges in the global context.
Student Societies Structure
Societies/Clubs will be initiated/created by the students in the mentorship of a faculty member of
the Institute. Minimum 25 students and one faculty member will be required to establish a
particular society/club.
The Provost
Advisor (Faculty)
Student Cabinet
Procedure For The Formation of New Society/Club
The following procedure shall be used for the formation of a student society/club:
• A duly filled application form must be submitted to the Provost.
• An evaluation committee will evaluate/review the form concerning the following
conditions:
i.
The objective of the society.
ii.
Functions of the society.
iii.
Eligibility requirements.
iv.
Proposed Calendar of events (minimum 03 events).
v.
General Guidelines/Institute Policy.
vi.
Need of the Society/Club.
• The evaluated form will be forwarded to the Rector for the final decision.
Structure of Each Society/Club
Each society/club will have the following office bearers duly nominated by students and then
appointed by the institute through the committee.
Staff
• Advisor(Faculty member)
Students’ Cabinet
• President (Must be senior semester student)
• General Secretary
• Treasurer
• Media Manager
• Public Relation Secretary
• Executive Members
**Cabinet members (Office bearers of the society) will not be from the same
department and must be comprised of different department’s students.
Selection of Cabinet Members
•
Office bearers will be selected based on their academic performance, discipline, and above
all their talent in the respective area of activity.
•
Only those students who qualify for their first semester in the Institute would be eligible
for any cabinet position.
•
The office-bearer will be selected by the committee comprising of the Dean, the Provost
and the concerned advisor through interview.
•
Senior semester students will be given priority to become a cabinet member.
•
Office bearers will be selected for one year. However, they will continue in office till they
are formally replaced by new appointees.
Responsibilities of Advisers and Cabinet member
The Advisor:
Each Society/Club would be headed by an Advisor who would be a faculty member and appointed
by the Provost with the approval of the Competent Authority.
• The primary duty of an Advisor would be to mentor/advise/facilitate the cabinet members
of the concerned society/club.
• At the outset of an academic year, each society would submit a year planner of activities
to be held on specific days.
• The society advisor would be responsible to organize at least three major events during
one academic year.
• The cabinet members under the guidance of advisor would keep a proper record of the
activities of the society concerned.
• The Advisor would seek prior approval for advance payment from the Competent
Authority via Provost to organize an activity.  A case for adjustment of the advance drawn
would be submitted to the concerned office within a week after the event is held.
• Reporting of any activity of the society to the Provost would be the responsibility of the
society.
• The Advisor on the termination of each tenure would recommend the names of deserving
cabinet members or general members for awarding certificates, subject to fulfillment of
the condition of attendance, active participation, excellent performance and meritorious
services.
• The Advisor would submit the particulars of their respective cabinet members/office
bearers to the Provost office for notification within a week.
Responsibilities of The Cabinet Members
The President
The President of society would be responsible to look after the business of his/her society. S/he
would be responsible to his/her Advisor and chalk out activities in compliance with the academic
calendar/schedule.
The General Secretary
The General Secretary would keep a proper record of all activities, attendance of the cabinet and
general members, minutes of the meetings etc. The General Secretary of a Society would submit
a copy of attendance to the Provost office after each meeting. All records must be properly
submitted to the Provost office on the completion of the term of the cabinet or earlier.
The Treasurer
The Finance Secretary would be responsible for financial matters of society and prepare a case in
advance for approval for any activity. He would also be responsible for the adjustment of the
amount within a week after holding of event and submit the case to the Provost through the
Advisor of the concerned society/club.
The Secretary For Media and Public Relations
The Secretary for Media and Public Relations of each society would coordinate with the students
to promote the event. He would send an advance press release/report to the president for onward
submission to the concerned quarters. He would keep a proper record of reports, press cuttings
etc. related to students’ activities and send a copy of the report to the Provost. He would also be
responsible for the submission of the report of bi-annual activities of his/her society to the Provost
through the Advisor. Any media/press release must be approved by the concerned authority before
it is issued.
The Secretary for Media and Public Relations would be responsible for designing, printing and
distribution of invitation cards of the activities/ceremonies held. They have to maintain a list and
contact numbers of the invitees, Faculty Members, Administrative Heads and key persons in the
Public and Private sectors. They would chalk out the program of their society in advance in
consultation with the Advisor and Cabinet Members. List of invites, however, to be finalized/
approved by the Competent Authority.
SOPS FOR STUDENT SOCIETIES EVENTS
Steps before conducting an event/activity
• Students willing to conduct an event/activity will be required to submit a written request
to the Provost duly signed by the Advisor of the society/club.
• Students completing all requirements will be eligible to book their venue/facilities by
visiting the Provost office/Administration department, along with the original copy of the
event organizing approved application. This is subject to the availability of the required
facilities.
• All bookings of the facilities/venues will be done by the Provost/Administration
department.
• Meeting of the Cabinet/Society can be called only in break time to avoid any disturbance
in the curricular activities.
• In all activities/events, students will strictly observe the disciplinary rules.
General conduct for students and Advisors
• All participants must maintain a clean environment, observe teamwork, exercise tolerance
and respect each other.
• Society Advisor must review the content of the programs to ensure that it is not
controversial or damaging to the PAF-IAST in any manner.
• No student can enjoy the Cabinet position of two or more societies/clubs or keep two
positions of the same society at the same time.
• Any member of the cabinet can be removed by the Provost on request of the concerned
Advisor on account of misbehavior, or violation of the rules etc.
• Any cabinet member of the society/club who does not attend two consecutive
official meetings without any valid reason would be relieved from his/her office/duties
with the recommendation of the Advisor.
• Prior approval for organizing an event along with its budget would be necessary from the
Competent Authority.
• The whole Cabinet would work collectively as a single body for a society.