Pak-Austria Fachhochschule
Institute of Applied Sciences and Technology (PAF-IAST)
(School of Medicine Dentistry & Allied Sciences, SMDAS, PAF-IAST)
Positions Vacant
The Government of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa has approved the establishment of a Medical & Dental
College at Pak-Austria Fachhochschule: Institute of Applied Sciences and Technology, Haripur. SMDAS,
PAF-IAST is seeking qualified applicants in relevant areas of specialization for the following positions.
Lab
Technologist
Anatomy
03 years Associate diploma and 03 years of post diploma professional
experience in relevant field.
OR
BS MLT with 2 years post qualification relevant experience.
Candidates having BS MLT and experience in Medical Colleges/Institutes
will be preferred.
Physiology
Biochemistry
BS MLT with 2 years post qualification relevant experience.
Candidates having BS MLT and experience in Medical Colleges/Institutes
will be preferred.
OR
M.Phil. Biochemistry/Genetics/Chemistry with three (03) years of teaching
experience
Computer Operator
1st Division Bachelor Degree (14 years)  with 15 years of expereince as
Computer operator/Head Clerk in a medical college.
OR
1st Division Bachelor Degree (16 years) in Computer Science/IT or
equivalent qualification with typing speed of 40 words in a minute.
Candidates having experience in Medical Colleges/Institutes will be
preferred.
Store Keeper
1st Division Bachelor Degree in Commerce or finance with 02 years
relevant experience in Government, Semi Government organization with at
least 06 months computer Diploma from recognized government institute.
Candidates having experience in Medical Colleges/Institutes will be
preferred.
Hall Attendant
1st div Matric with Science.
Candidates having experience in Medical Colleges/Institutes will be
preferred.
Curator
2nd division Bachelor in Social Sciences/Fine Arts recognized by HEC.
Candidates having experience in Medical Colleges/Institutes will be
preferred.
General Instructions/Conditions
1. Following terms and conditions will be applicable in addition to eligibility criteria:
2. All the above positions will be filled on a contract basis.
3. Selected candidates shall be governed by the Statutes and Regulations of the Institute.
4. The candidates serving in Government, Semi Government and Autonomous Bodies should route their
applications through proper channel.
5. A person who is dismissed from service or convicted through any Court of Law is not eligible to apply
for the above-mentioned positions.
6. Any applicant who desires to apply for more than one position shall apply separately for each position.
7. Applicants should apply Online on the prescribed application form, available at https://paf-
iast.edu.pk/Jobs/apply.php.  They will attach all relevant documents with the online application form
before 18-11-2025.
8. Only online submitted applications will be considered.
9. Incomplete applications (online) and applications received in (hard copy) will not be considered.
10. Only shortlisted candidates will be called for test/interviews.
11. No TA/DA will be paid during the selection process.
12. MDC, PAF-IAST reserves the right to increase or decrease the number of positions or reject any or all
applications without assigning any reason.