Pak-Austria Fachhochschule:
Institute of Applied Sciences & Technology
Mang, Haripur, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa
Website: www.paf-iast.edu.pk Ph: 0995-931615-1708, Fax: 0995-645117
1- Participants must have valid CNIC & Original CNIC would be required along with the Pay
Order/Cash Receipt of PKR 1000/- Tender/Auction Fee (Non-Refundable) to participate in
auction process. The Highest bidder will be awarded to lift up the scrap.
2- Auction fee PKR 1000/- can be deposited in shape of Pay Order in the name of Rector PAF-
IAST
3. Before the Auction Day, each party/Individual must bring a Pay Order in favor of Rector
PAF-IAST amounting to Rs. 50,000 (One hundred thousand only) as Earnest Money which is
(Refundable) to un-successful bidders along with the Auction fee mentioned above (non-
refundable) and a copy of CNIC as only those bidders will be allowed to enter PAF-IAST on
Auction Day to participate in Auction who have submitted both in the office of undersigned
for the purpose of Registration.
4.
The scrap material can be inspected at PAF IAST Haripu, alongwith original CNIC
during working hours i.e 0900-500 PST Only
5- Earnest money of the successful bidder(s) will be returned back against their bid value and
will be required to submit remaining amount in shape of Pay Order within three working days
after the Management approval, otherwise PAF-IAST Haripur reserves the right to forfeit
Earnest amount. Only Pay Order will be accepted. Bank Guarantees call deposit, cheque and
any other payment instrument will not be entertained.
5. After the Management approval, the successful bidders will be required to lift up the sold
material within 07 days only after making the full payment to the PAF- IAST. After 07 days,
PKR 2,000/= per day /per day, will be charged as Warehouse Charges. In case, successful
bidder fails to lift up / remove the sold out items even after the elapse of 07 days, Management
reserves the right to forfeit the Earnest money.
6-  OFFERS must remain valid for 60/Sixty days.
7. All participants/bidders to inspect/check the material carefully on given day / time mentioned
above well before tender opening. No claim whatsoever will be accepted after tender opening.
8-All equipment is being sold as scrap without any document i.e. Bill of Entry, Invoices etc.
PAF-IAST will only issue NOC for the equipment.
9- Successful bidder/s will be responsible to remove leftover scrap/cleaning of the junk yard.
10-Non-compliance with any of the terms & conditions will be liable to debar for participation
in the auction process.
11- All Government of Pakistan applicable taxes will also be payable by the bidder against
accepted bid(s) if applicable.
12- Decision of the Auction committee will be final & binding to all the participants (Cameras
and Mobile Phones are not Allowed) on Inspection and Auction Days For any queries, please
feel free to contact the undersigned
RECTOR, PAF-IAST