About PAF IAST - PAF IAST
Events
Portals
CMS
ERP
LMS
Alumni
International
Technology Park
Business Incubation Center
Special Technology Zone
Office of Research Innovation and Commercialization
Tenders
Downloads
Careers
Apply Now
Home
About
Management
Chairman Advisory Board
Rector
Advisory Board
Board of Governors
Executive Council
Offices & Resources
Act and Statutes
Support Offices
International Office
Quality Enhancement Cell (QEC)
Finance Directorate
Directorate of Examination
Advanced Studies Research Board (ASRB)
Campus Computing and Communication Services (3CS)
Campus Life
Infrastructure
Video Gallery
PAF-IAST Code of Conduct
Why PAF-IAST
Our Green Campus
History
Vision
Study
Faculties & Department
Faculty of Computing, Art, Architecture, & Design (FCAAD)
Faculty of Engineering, Sciences, & Technology (FEST)
Faculty of Life Sciences (FLS)
Faculty of Management and Social Sciences (FMS2)
Explore Our Departments
Programs & Schedule
Bachelor Programs
Master Programs
Short Courses
Academic Schedule
Timetable
Student Societies & Clubs
Scholarships & Awards
Need Based Scholarships
Merit Scholarship
External Scholarships
Honors and Awards
Admissions
Financial Matters
Fee Structure
Fee Refund Policy
Scholarships & Awards
Arrangements
Admissions Schedule
Entry Test Composition
Cancellation of Admission
Procedures
Eligibility Criteria
Merit Scheme
HEC Disability Policy
FAQs
Research Centers
Agriculture Food Technologies
Mineral Resource Engineering
Sino-Pak Center for Artificial Intelligence
Transportation / Railway Engineering
Contact Us
Events
Portals
CMS
ERP
LMS
Alumni
International
Technology Park
Business Incubation Center
Special Technology Zone
Office of Research Innovation and Commercialization
Tenders
Downloads
Careers
Apply Now
About PAF IAST
Message from Chairman Advisory Board / Vice Chair, Board of Governors
Pakistan gravely lacks an adequately trained and skilled workforce in the production sector. This has been a major factor contributing to our low exports and poor economic growth. The
situation
has seen an only marginal improvement in recent years. While our National Education Policy recognizes the importance of technical education at the tertiary level for providing technical skills towards the fulfillment of industry requirements, much remains to be done to enable Pakistan to realize its true potential. The secret to developing a strong knowledge economy lies in the ability of nations to be able to manufacture and export high technology goods. For this, we must have top class engineering universities that can produce students that can meet the new challenges posed by the 4th industrial revolution with the accompanying emerging and disruptive technologies such as artificial intelligence, next-generation genomics, industrial biotechnology, energy storage systems, 3D printing, new materials, and others.
Read More
Message from Rector PAF-IAST
Being one of the pioneer members of the project team, I must say that inception of Pak-Austria Fachhochschule Institute of Applied Sciences and Technology is like a dream come true. I take immense pride in being appointed as the first Rector of the Institute.
Today, knowledge along with skill is the key difference between developed and underdeveloped economies. Pakistan lacks in adequately trained and skilled work force in production sector, keeping it behind others. To become a developed economy, it is imperative for the nation to invest in and leverage its engineering sector. The existing engineering and technology curricula do not adequately cater to the needs of our industry mainly due to the lack of practical skills of graduates. Being cognizant of the fact, PAF-IAST is all set to change this rut through a conscious effort by tying practical skills and industry engagement to its Bachelor and Master degree programs.
A purpose-built campus, with state-of-the-art facilities for interactive learning through smart classrooms and advanced laboratory equipment has been established at Mang, Haripur.
Read More
Overview
Pak-Austria Fachhochschule: Institute of Applied Sciences and Technology is located in a rapidly changing and fiercely competitive global environment, Pakistan has to make bold strategic choices in order to achieve sustainable growth in the manufacturing sector.
This calls for massive structural changes and a major paradigm shift in the sphere of production. The answer lies in achieving technology and knowledge-based industrialization with a view to creating a sound base for promoting an integrated and competitive industry culture in the private sector.
Our Vision
To be an academic leader in foreseeing and addressing the techno-industrial demands and socio-economic challenges of society.
Our Values
Our Goals
To contribute to the development of sound industrial economy in Pakistan
To strive and achieve the goals of effective higher education in engineering, science, and technology
To pave the way through success and to promote the hi-tech industries in Pakistan
To establish an integrated Technology Park comprising Business Incubation Center
To engage world-class faculty, highly qualified and well-versed in applied research
Our Green Campus
PAF IAST is nestled in natural mountains that flank its campus from all sides, offering one even the ravishing view of snow-capped peaks of Nathiagali and natural winding trails. To its north-west is Tarbela Lake, a journey of only a few kilometers from the campus. Set in the middle of the campus is a natural lake, fed by the springs of surrounding mountains. The campus is just a 3-kilometer drive from the Hazara Motorway. The ideal setting equally conducive to academic activity and aesthetic sensibilities of the human eye is a serene island of its own kind, far from the chaos, congestion and cacophony of metropolitan culture. The major cities like Islamabad, Abbottabad, are just an hour’s drive, while small towns like Wah, Hasanabadal, Taxila and Swabi can be reached in just half an hour.
About PAF IAST
The Pak-Austria Fachhochschule: Institute of Applied Sciences & Technology (PAF IAST) is our collaborative venture with select Austrian and Chinese Universities
The Pak-Austria Fachhochschule: Institute of Applied Sciences and Technology (PAF IAST) is unique in its concept, approach, and methodology.
The project concept stems from the slogan “Skilling Pakistan” and envisages creating highly credible technical education infrastructure both at tertiary and hi-tech industry levels.
With this twin-aim concept, the project is a quantum leap forward in the fast burgeoning knowledge-based economy, far beyond a mere educational program.
We aim to raise the standards of technical education in Pakistan at par with those of most advanced industrial economies, notwithstanding the problems confronting developing nations in trying to achieve standards in advanced countries: standards that are constantly on the rise at a pace much faster than the economic capacity of a developing country. At the same time, we are fully conscious of and alive to the need of linking employment with education by harnessing high-quality manpower produced by such projects to induce, not only an inward flow of technology investment into Pakistan but also enable the generation of local hi-tech industry. The technology park integrated into the scheme of
Pak-Austria Fachhochschule
is a cardinal feature of this holistic concept.
Fulfillment of this novel concept, however, will remain an elusive dream without creating a critical mass of high-quality engineers and a hi-tech industry base. The whole spectrum of hi-tech industrial base in the country, therefore, needs to grow fast to develop an industrial infrastructure capable of supporting the progress of a diverse array of growing industrial companies.
From this perspective, this unprecedented initiative in Pakistan supported by several universities based in Austria and China for awarding degrees to our students
assumes enormous importance of its kind. The institute will comprise academic departments and research centers covering the areas of process engineering, design, and media technologies, applied computer sciences, medical technologies, energy, and environmental engineering, electrical engineering, civil engineering, transportation engineering, mineral resource engineering, extraction metallurgy, and agriculture and forestry.
The
Pak-Austria Fachhochschule: Institute of Applied Sciences and Technology boasts
the latest teaching and practical laboratories equipped at par with partner universities. Effective plans are in hand to keep pace, through a process of monitoring by their accreditation bodies, with the highest standards of the curricula, teaching resources, and the learning outcomes adopted by the foreign partners. On completion of the initial establishment phase, the quality and output will be gauged, and programs accredited, using internationally-recognized criteria.
Our Core Values
Innovation
Quality
Integrity
Excellence
Leadership
Collaboration
Passion
Diversity
Strengths & Features
Technology Park
The PAF IAST programs are closely integrated with a parallel program for the development of technology-driven enterprises. For the holistic achievement of the concept, it is necessary to dovetail the institute’s educational infrastructure with a corresponding and compatible growth in the high-technology industry in tandem. To meet this critical need, PAF IAST has a sound plan in place to build on its state-of-the-art campus an Innovation Technology Park.
To boost innovation, every faculty member, trained in Austria and China, will be offered an average grant of USD 50,000 for developing new projects in the Innovation Park.
A sum of 10 million USD has already been set aside for this purpose. The new projects, which will be implemented largely in collaboration with scientists of Austrian and Chinese partner universities, could potentially lead to joint patenting and industrial production.
International-Quality Training
The teaching faculty are being hired through a highly competitive process, involving active expert assessment by partner universities abroad. For the implementation of the Fachhochschule model of education, faculty members of the institute, with PhDs from premier foreign universities, will attend at the partner universities in Austria and China intensive training related to specific pedagogical and managerial skills.
Equivalence with Standards in the Developed World
To ensure quality, subject to the approval of accreditation bodies of Pakistan and the partner universities in Austria and China, double degrees will be awarded to students. The collaborator universities will be responsible to ensure that the teaching and research programs at PAF IAST, in all essentials, are equivalent to theirs. Equivalence will be achieved by following identical syllabi, laboratory experiments, and assessment mechanisms. For maintenance of requisite standards, the accreditation agency in the partner country shall be involved to assess at regular intervals the quality of instruction at PAF IAST. The equivalence of degrees will be the key determinant that the graduates of PAF IAST have acquired education of international standards comparable to that of the graduates from the collaborator universities in Austria or China. In other words, there shall be no quality gap between the Pakistani graduate engineers and the engineers who graduated from the partner universities. Eventually, equivalence will be demonstrated, recognized, and accepted by all stakeholders in the program in those degrees of the collaborator institutions will be awardable to all such graduates as can qualify the academic standards set forth by the relevant accreditation councils.
Faculty Development
Under the HRD program, during phases 1, 2, and 3, around 200 faculty members will be trained in Austria/China for periods of up to 6 months. Those holding M S/MPhil or equivalent degrees will be sent to technical universities in Austria and China on 4-year Ph.D. programs in relevant disciplines.