Government Universities in KPK | PAF-IAST | Facilities
Events
Portals
CMS
ERP
LMS
Alumni
International
Technology Park
Business Incubation Center
Special Technology Zone
Office of Research Innovation and Commercialization
Tenders
Downloads
Careers
Apply Now
Home
About
Management
Chairman Advisory Board
Rector
Advisory Board
Board of Governors
Executive Council
Offices & Resources
Act and Statutes
Support Offices
International Office
Quality Enhancement Cell (QEC)
Finance Directorate
Directorate of Examination
Advanced Studies Research Board (ASRB)
Campus Computing and Communication Services (3CS)
Campus Life
Infrastructure
Video Gallery
PAF-IAST Code of Conduct
Why PAF-IAST
Our Green Campus
History
Vision
Study
Faculties & Department
Faculty of Computing, Art, Architecture, & Design (FCAAD)
Faculty of Engineering, Sciences, & Technology (FEST)
Faculty of Life Sciences (FLS)
Faculty of Management and Social Sciences (FMS2)
Explore Our Departments
Programs & Schedule
Bachelor Programs
Master Programs
Short Courses
Academic Schedule
Timetable
Student Societies & Clubs
Scholarships & Awards
Need Based Scholarships
Merit Scholarship
External Scholarships
Honors and Awards
Admissions
Financial Matters
Fee Structure
Fee Refund Policy
Scholarships & Awards
Arrangements
Admissions Schedule
Entry Test Composition
Cancellation of Admission
Procedures
Eligibility Criteria
Merit Scheme
HEC Disability Policy
FAQs
Research Centers
Agriculture Food Technologies
Mineral Resource Engineering
Sino-Pak Center for Artificial Intelligence
Transportation / Railway Engineering
Contact Us
Events
Portals
CMS
ERP
LMS
Alumni
International
Technology Park
Business Incubation Center
Special Technology Zone
Office of Research Innovation and Commercialization
Tenders
Downloads
Careers
Apply Now
Infrastructure
Academic Blocks
Each faculty has its own dedicated Academic block comprising well-ventilated smart classrooms, and state-of-the-art labs equipped with the latest equipment. Ubiquitous Wi-Fi facility is available to faculty, students, and staff alike. The faculty has decent rooms to work in while spacious open areas are reserved for students.
Library
The campus has a high standard library, well provided with course textbooks along, reference books, and a good number of necessary research journals for each area of specialization. The library complex also comprises a few cubicles with smart boards installed for research group discussions and presentations.
Hostels
Fully furnished shared accommodation is available for resident students. Boarding facilities are exclusively meant for students hailing from remote cities. Boarding facilities include comfortable rooms, fully functional dining halls, anteroom, Wi-Fi facility, indoor games, vending machines, and laundry.
Sports
Besides jogging tracks, two large grounds are reserved for cricket and soccer. Apart from indoor game facilities at each Academic block, badminton and volleyball courts also have been made available.
Facilities
Transport Facilities
Suitable arrangements at affordable cost have been made to commute students, both ways, in comfortable coaches from cities like Islamabad, Rawalpindi, Wah, Taxila, Haripur, Abbottabad and other nearby cities.
Banking & Internet Facilities
Every building of PAF IAST is provided with a wireless network internet connection and an ATM facilitates for all employees, faculty members, and students. Special provision has been made to provide access to guests and visitors.
Ancillary Facilities
PAF IAST Campus offers ample ancillary services to ensure a conducive academic environment for all. These facilities include automated vending machines to provide snacks, beverages, essential commodities to students at fair prices.
Student Activity Center
A custom-built Student Activity Center is established for recreational and socializing purposes. The facilities include a state-of-the-art cafeteria, stationery shop, tuckshop, Wi-Fi facility, photocopiers, and printers.
Auditoriums
Each academic block has its own independent auditorium with a seating capacity of 100 persons. All auditoriums are equipped with internet connectivity and have the provision to record talks/ lectures.
Biometric Attendance and RFID system
An RFID system has been installed to monitor the biometric attendance of students, faculty members, administrative staff, & employees. To monitor the movement of staff from one building to another, RFID cards will be issued to all employees as a ready mechanism for security checks.
School
A separate building has been erected for an on-campus school facility from kindergarten to intermediate level along with a daycare facility for the children of faculty and administrative officials. The school is managed by a highly experienced administrator and well-trained teachers
State of The Art Campus
Pak Austria Fachhochschule: Institute of Applied Sciences and Technology Be a part of our History PAF IAST PAF IAST is an initiative of the Government of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa in
collaboration
with
Austrian
and
Chinese
Universities.