FAQs | PAF-IAST Admission Fall 2021
Events
Portals
CMS
ERP
LMS
Alumni
International
Technology Park
Business Incubation Center
Special Technology Zone
Office of Research Innovation and Commercialization
Tenders
Downloads
Careers
Apply Now
Home
About
Management
Chairman Advisory Board
Rector
Advisory Board
Board of Governors
Executive Council
Offices & Resources
Act and Statutes
Support Offices
International Office
Quality Enhancement Cell (QEC)
Finance Directorate
Directorate of Examination
Advanced Studies Research Board (ASRB)
Campus Computing and Communication Services (3CS)
Campus Life
Infrastructure
Video Gallery
PAF-IAST Code of Conduct
Why PAF-IAST
Our Green Campus
History
Vision
Study
Faculties & Department
Faculty of Computing, Art, Architecture, & Design (FCAAD)
Faculty of Engineering, Sciences, & Technology (FEST)
Faculty of Life Sciences (FLS)
Faculty of Management and Social Sciences (FMS2)
Explore Our Departments
Programs & Schedule
Bachelor Programs
Master Programs
Short Courses
Academic Schedule
Timetable
Student Societies & Clubs
Scholarships & Awards
Need Based Scholarships
Merit Scholarship
External Scholarships
Honors and Awards
Admissions
Financial Matters
Fee Structure
Fee Refund Policy
Scholarships & Awards
Arrangements
Admissions Schedule
Entry Test Composition
Cancellation of Admission
Procedures
Eligibility Criteria
Merit Scheme
HEC Disability Policy
FAQs
Research Centers
Agriculture Food Technologies
Mineral Resource Engineering
Sino-Pak Center for Artificial Intelligence
Transportation / Railway Engineering
Contact Us
Events
Portals
CMS
ERP
LMS
Alumni
International
Technology Park
Business Incubation Center
Special Technology Zone
Office of Research Innovation and Commercialization
Tenders
Downloads
Careers
Apply Now
PAF-IAST Undergraduate and Graduate Programmes
Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)
Please consider this page as the first resource for answers to queries about applying for admission to the PAF-IAST Undergraduate and Graduate Programmes
Can I submit admission application form in university?
We are accepting Admission Forms though online admission portal only. By hand or by courier forms will not be accepted. The Online Admission Form must be filled according to the steps. The applicants are encouraged to read the information carefully before filling up the online Admission Form (please visit our website https://paf-iast.edu.pk/admissions-in-kpk/).
If I face any problem while online form submission, can I visit university for guidelines?
Yes, in case of any issue you are facing while submitting online application you are welcome to visit university. A separate Registration cell is available in campus for those who don’t have online facility available.
What are the office hours at PAF-IAST for admission guidance?
Office Hours are: Monday to Friday (9:00am to 5:00PM). However, admission representative will be available 24/7 on email
[email protected]
.
In how many degree programs an applicant may apply?
An applicant can apply in three degree programs at a time.
Do I need to submit hard copies of admission form and relevant documents?
No, you don’t need to submit hardcopies of admission form. However, Original scan copies of documents are required to be uploaded on online admission Form:
a) 01 recent passport size photographs
b) All academics documents i.e (Matric, Inter, Bachelor and Master degrees or IBCC /HEC equivalent
c) CNIC card of the applicant or Form B or Father CNIC.
What is the selection procedure at PAF-IAST for Bachelors degree?
The selection of applicant for Bachelors degree shall be on merit, determined on the basis of marks obtained in the last examination (SSC & HSSC) and entry test.
Does the institute provide hostel facility?
PAF-IAST provides furnished hostel facility for boys and girls.
Does the institute provide transport facility?
PAF-IAST provides Air Conditioned transportation facility for boys and girls from all nearby major cities including Islamabad, Abbottabad, Haripur and Wah city.
Does the institute have affiliation with any university?
PAF-IAST has its own university charter which requires no affiliation with any university.
Does PEC recognize the Institute?
All Engineering programs offered by the institute are duly approved/ accredited by the Pakistan Engineering Council (PEC).
Does PAF-IAST have proper lab facilities?
Yes, PAF- IAST already has well furnished and state of the art laboratories to support the programs.
Does PAF-IAST have a library?
Yes, PAF-IAST has a resourceful library with sufficient current editions of books, reference material to support the programs, which is constantly updated.
What are the scholarship opportunities available at PAF-IAST?
Vast number of Need-based and merit scholarship opportunities are available for new applicants at PAF-IAST. For more detail visit
https://paf-iast.edu.pk/
.
What are the criteria for awarding scholarships?
This is decided by the Institute Scholarship Award Committee on merit basis.
What are the prospects of higher education?
The PAF-IAST programs are accredited nationally and internationally and the student shall have no difficulty in getting admissions abroad.
How can I come to PAF-IAST campus?
The campus is just a 3-kilometer drive from the Hazara Motorway. This results in an ideal setting equally conducive to academic activity. Most importantly, major cities like Islamabad, Abbottabad, are just an hour’s drive, while small towns like Wah, Hasanabadal, Taxila, and Swabi can be reached in just half an hour.
What is the System of Education at PAF-IAST?
PAF-IAST follows the semester system. Each program is of eight semesters and each semester is of eighteen weeks duration. There will be two semesters in each year and mandatory internships.
Does PAF-IAST conducts its own entry test?
Yes, PAF-IAST conduct its own computer-based entry test for Bachelors degree. In order to get admission in any degree program, the applicants are required to qualify Entrance Test. For MS PAF-IAST accept GAT General score, which is conducted by NTS.
Can I edit information in my online application form after submission?
No, you can not edit/update your online application form once submitted. In case of any error made during submission of online application, you are required to send an email at
[email protected]
highlighting the problem which you faced. PAF-IAST admission representative would un-submit your application form and you can add new application with correct credentials.
Is it mandatory to deposit application processing fee?
Yes, it is mandatory to deposit application processing fee otherwise your application will not be processed/considered for entry test.
How it will be confirmed that whether my application processing fee has been received at PAF-IAST? Or I have to send copy of Paid Challan form to PAF-IAST.
Nothing is required to send PAF-IAST. Just upload scanned copy of paid challan. Your fee status will be automatically updated on your application form after verification from bank within next 1 to 2 working days after deposit of application processing fee. You can log-in and check the status.
What should I do if I have paid application processing but my fee status is not updated on online application form?
You are required to email scan copy of paid challan form at
[email protected]
and before the closing date to apply for admission.
Is it mandatory to attach the documents with online application form?
Yes, it is mandatory to attach the desired documents with your online application form otherwise your application will not be processed/considered for admission.
What does it mean by Guardian?
A guardian is a person who are looking after you in terms of taking your care, paying your educational expenses etc.
When my application will be processed?
If you have deposit application processing fee then please wait. Your application will be processed soon.
When and where merit lists are displayed?
Merit lists are displayed on PAF-IAST website
https://paf-iast.edu.pk/
.
Is it required to send hard copy of online application form/ Challan Form or documents to PAF-IAST?
You are required to upload desired documents with your online admission form. Do not send application form or any other document to PAF-IAST.
What is the last date to deposit application processing fee?
Last date to deposit application processing fee is same as closing date to apply for admission.
What are the entry requirements and eligibility criteria?
Visit website https://paf-iast.edu.pk/ for details about entry requirements and eligibility criteria.
How to Select Undergraduate Program Preference
Visit Paf-iast-oaa.almusnet.com
Use the same username and password which you have used while applying for test application
Go to My Application Tab
Click on Create Application Button
Select Undergraduate Admission for selecting Program Preferences
Click on proceed button
Click on Choose preference button to select program Preferences
Please select as many program preferences as you want
Complete the other information Section
Complete the undertaking Section
Click on Submit Button