Research - PAF IAST
Events
Portals
CMS
ERP
LMS
Alumni
International
Technology Park
Business Incubation Center
Special Technology Zone
Office of Research Innovation and Commercialization
Tenders
Downloads
Careers
Apply Now
Home
About
Management
Chairman Advisory Board
Rector
Advisory Board
Board of Governors
Executive Council
Offices & Resources
Act and Statutes
Support Offices
International Office
Quality Enhancement Cell (QEC)
Finance Directorate
Directorate of Examination
Advanced Studies Research Board (ASRB)
Campus Computing and Communication Services (3CS)
Campus Life
Infrastructure
Video Gallery
PAF-IAST Code of Conduct
Why PAF-IAST
Our Green Campus
History
Vision
Study
Faculties & Department
Faculty of Computing, Art, Architecture, & Design (FCAAD)
Faculty of Engineering, Sciences, & Technology (FEST)
Faculty of Life Sciences (FLS)
Faculty of Management and Social Sciences (FMS2)
Explore Our Departments
Programs & Schedule
Bachelor Programs
Master Programs
Short Courses
Academic Schedule
Timetable
Student Societies & Clubs
Scholarships & Awards
Need Based Scholarships
Merit Scholarship
External Scholarships
Honors and Awards
Admissions
Financial Matters
Fee Structure
Fee Refund Policy
Scholarships & Awards
Arrangements
Admissions Schedule
Entry Test Composition
Cancellation of Admission
Procedures
Eligibility Criteria
Merit Scheme
HEC Disability Policy
FAQs
Research Centers
Agriculture Food Technologies
Mineral Resource Engineering
Sino-Pak Center for Artificial Intelligence
Transportation / Railway Engineering
Contact Us
Events
Portals
CMS
ERP
LMS
Alumni
International
Technology Park
Business Incubation Center
Special Technology Zone
Office of Research Innovation and Commercialization
Tenders
Downloads
Careers
Apply Now
Know Us Better
Research
Centers of Excellence
PAF IAST boasts the latest teaching and practical laboratories equipped at par with partner universities. Effective plans are in hand to keep pace, through a process of monitoring by international accreditation bodies, with the highest standards of the curricula, teaching resources, and the learning outcomes adopted by the foreign partners. In the conclusion of the initial establishment phase, the quality and output will be gauged, and programs accredited, using internationally-recognized criteria.
Sino-Pak Center for Artificial Intelligence
The core objective of the center is to build national capacity for R&D in the emerging field of artificial intelligence and gain expertise in this area through MS/Ph.D. programs in collaboration with Chinese and Austrian universities. Besides providing high-value services to industrial partners, we seek to achieve the capability to solve local problems using AI and market those indigenous solutions through the technology park.
Mineral Resource Engineering
Pakistan has rich reservoirs of minerals resources, including clays (china clay and fire clay), copper, dolomite, gypsum, iron ore, limestone, marble (onyx), salt, sand and gravel, silica sand, as well as energy resources like coal, natural gas, oil; and precious and novel stones.
Considering the significance of mineral resources, PAF IAST has set up a Centre of excellence with the co-operation of Chinese universities.
Center of Excellence in Agriculture Food Technologies
Agriculture has remained the lifeline of Pakistan’s economy since its birth. It significantly contributes to the national economy and poverty alleviation by providing food security to the masses, besides supplying cheap raw material to several value-added industries.
PAF IAST plans to establish a center of excellence in Agriculture Food Technology with the help of Chinese universities in critical areas such as Food Processing Technology, Packaging Technology and Seed Technology.
Read More
Center of Excellence in Transportation / Railway Engineering
The Center of Excellence in Transportation / Railway Engineering at Pak Austria Fachhochschule – Institute of Applied Sciences and Technology (PAF-IAST), Haripur,  aims to become a world-class educational institution for imparting knowledge, skill development and research in the field of transport and railways. Its core domain will be to impart high-quality education and knowledge initially in rail-related matters and later on in the larger transport sector; provide training opportunities for skill development; create an environment of excellence in focused rail and transport sector research and development; liaise with the transport and rail industry,in Pakistan and abroad to have an industrial impact and to assist in the development of innovative tools and provide solutions to tackle emerging technical challenges, taking it role as an important stakeholder in the transport and railway sector by maintaining financial sustainability.
Read More
Areas of Cooperation
Exploration of collaborative research projects.
Exchange of teaching and research staff.
Organization of joint academic activities including degree programs, seminars, lectures, workshops, and conferences.
Advancement and exchange of students.
Short faculty visits.
Training of PAF IAST faculty & administrative staff.