SPCAI | Sino-Pak Center for Artificial Intelligence
Events
Portals
CMS
ERP
Alumni
International
Technology Park
Business Incubation Center
Special Technology Zone
Office of Research Innovation and Commercialization
Tenders
Downloads
Careers
Apply Now
Home
About
Management
Chairman Advisory Board
Rector
Advisory Board
Board of Governors
Executive Council
Offices & Resources
Act and Statutes
Support Offices
International Office
Quality Enhancement Cell (QEC)
Finance Directorate
Directorate of Examination
Advanced Studies Research Board (ASRB)
Campus Computing and Communication Services (3CS)
Campus Life
Infrastructure
Video Gallery
PAF-IAST Code of Conduct
Why PAF-IAST
Our Green Campus
History
Vision
Study
Faculties & Department
Faculty of Computing, Art, Architecture, & Design (FCAAD)
Faculty of Engineering, Sciences, & Technology (FEST)
Faculty of Life Sciences (FLS)
Faculty of Management and Social Sciences (FMS2)
Explore Our Departments
Programs & Schedule
Bachelor Programs
Master Programs
Short Courses
Academic Schedule
Timetable
Student Societies & Clubs
Scholarships & Awards
Need Based Scholarships
Merit Scholarship
External Scholarships
Honors and Awards
Admissions
Financial Matters
Fee Structure
Fee Refund Policy
Scholarships & Awards
Arrangements
Admissions Schedule
Entry Test Composition
Cancellation of Admission
Procedures
Eligibility Criteria
Merit Scheme
HEC Disability Policy
FAQs
Research Centers
Agriculture Food Technologies
Mineral Resource Engineering
Sino-Pak Center for Artificial Intelligence
Transportation / Railway Engineering
Contact Us
Events
Portals
CMS
ERP
Alumni
International
Technology Park
Business Incubation Center
Special Technology Zone
Office of Research Innovation and Commercialization
Tenders
Downloads
Careers
Apply Now
Sino-Pak Center for Artificial Intelligence
State of the art GPU accelerated computing facility
with the cost of 190 Million PKR 
Performance: 91 Tera FLOPS
Pakistan:
Among the top 2 High performance computing centers
Sino-Pak Center for Artificial Intelligence
High performance Computing and Data Center
Skilling
Pakistan
A
technology-focused
concept to create a high-quality technical education infrastructure at tertiary level contributing to the development of a well-balanced industrial economy for Pakistan.
Sino-Pak Center for Artificial Intelligence
Sino-Pak Center for Artificial Intelligence (SPCAI) is an aspiring research facility actively promoting innovative AI-based solutions for complex day-to-day real-life problems. Our competence in application-oriented research and development lends our industrial partners a decisive competitive edge. Our organizational philosophy is to work with individual responsibility towards common sustainable development goals.
Research Labs
The
Sino-Pak Center for Artificial Intelligence
has
ten labs
divided into
four departments
, as shown in the following figure. Each lab belongs to a dedicated area of artificial intelligence, with the aim to develop AI-based products which could be introduced to Pakistani industries. The details of these labs are given in the lab sections..
Biomedical and Neurocomputation
Smart City, Urban Planning
Smart Agriculture
Applied Neural Interface
Computer Vision
Intelligent Field Robotics
Deep Learning
Intelligent Systems Design
Intelligent Natural Disaster Management Applications
Internet of Things
PAF-IAST  had got approval for establishing the Sino-Pak Center of Artificial Intelligence from Public Sector Development funds. The core objective of the center to build national capacity to carry out R&D in the emerging field of artificial intelligence by producing expertise through MS/PhD programs in collaboration with Chinese and Austrian universities. To solve local problems using AI and market them through the technology park. Provide high-value shared services to industrial partners. Develop an advanced workforce in AI and Data Science through training and applied work. Help in creating ecosystem for startups and spin-off companies to make Islamabad an IT hub for software companies/businesses. To lead other Pakistani universities, institutes, and industries into the era of artificial intelligence by managing and sharing the infrastructure and trained human resource.
Objectives:
The Center aspires following scientific objectives:
Capacity Building
Build national capacity to carry out R&D in the emerging field of artificial intelligence by producing expertise through MS/PhD programs in collaboration with Chinese and Austrian universities.
Problem Solving
To solve local problems using AI and market them through the technology park.
Local problems are eradicated through technology-based solutions, while commercialization will spur new employment opportunities.
Shared Services
Provide high-value shared services to industrial partners.
Develop an advanced workforce in AI and Data Science through training and applied work.
Pakistan’s social and Economic fabric
To engage faculty and students in applied research to fulfill the industrial requirement by providing innovative solutions, especially focusing on Pakistan’s social and economic fabric.
Partnership
To establish partnership with international research centers and leverage their rich experience to develop Center for Artificial Intelligence as an internationally renowned center in AI, attracting international projects and customers.
Help in creating ecosystem for startups and spin-off companies to make Islamabad an IT hub for software companies/businesses.
To lead other Pakistani universities, institutes and industry into the era of artificial intelligence by managing and sharing the infrastructure and trained human resource with them.
0
JOURNAL PAPERS
0
RESEARCH LABS FOCUSING ON DISCREET AND OVERLAPPING AREAS IN AI
0
RESEARCH MEMBERS
SPCAI Contact
If you have any questions, please do not hesitate to ask us. Please also call us or email us before visiting to make sure that you will be served with our best services.
+92-
995-645112/18
[email protected]
Your name
Your email
Subject
Your message (optional)